content/doc/developer/blueocean-plugin-development/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: developerchapter
summary: How to develop plugins for Blue Ocean
wip: true
title: Blue Ocean
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-plugin
  title: Main Blue Ocean plugin repository
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-design-language
  title: Design language repository with the styles and common components for Blue Ocean
---

The Blue Ocean plugin for Jenkins is designed to be extended by other plugins. 
Like many other plugins, Blue Ocean has its own extension points. 

Blue Ocean is a single-page application which has different aspects of the application contributed by purpose-specific plugins, such as the Dashboard for Blue Ocean or i18n for Blue Ocean plugins.

The main difference for Blue Ocean is that front end aspects of the plugin use a lot of JavaScript, with JavaScript specific extension points. 

Blue Ocean plugins are still just Jenkins plugins, delivered via the normal means, they just 
have the option of including JavaScript. 

As Blue Ocean is still new, the extensibility aspects of JavaScript development are still evolving. 

If you wish to make a plugin for blue ocean, some starting points: 

* Introduce yourself to the https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_blueocean-plugin:gitter.im[gitter chat room]. This is often the best place to start. There are many people there to help you get going.
* Read the https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-plugin#building-plugins-for-blue-ocean[README] with pointers on plugin development
* Get familiar with regular Jenkins plugin development (at least a very simple plugin)
* Read up a little on https://facebook.github.io/react/tutorial/tutorial.html[ReactJS] (not necessary but doesn't hurt)
* Take a look at the https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-blueocean-usain[Blue Ocean plugin] generator utility
* Take a look at a real plugin (non trivial) - https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-pipeline-editor-plugin[the visual pipeline editor].

For those with a more graphical focus, you will want to take a look at the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-design-language[Jenkins Design Language repository].

Commit message:

Updated the status of Blue Ocean

content/doc/developer/blueocean-plugin-development/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: developerchapter
summary: How to develop plugins for Blue Ocean
wip: true
title: Blue Ocean
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-plugin
  title: Main Blue Ocean plugin repository
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-design-language
  title: Design language repository with the styles and common components for Blue Ocean
---

== Blue Ocean status
Blue Ocean will *not* receive further functionality updates. 
Blue Ocean will continue to provide easy-to-use Pipeline visualization, but it will not be enhanced further. 
It will only receive selective updates for significant security issues or functional defects.

== Developer guide

The Blue Ocean plugin for Jenkins is designed to be extended by other plugins. 
Like many other plugins, Blue Ocean has its own extension points. 

Blue Ocean is a single-page application which has different aspects of the application contributed by purpose-specific plugins, such as the Dashboard for Blue Ocean or i18n for Blue Ocean plugins.

The main difference for Blue Ocean is that front end aspects of the plugin use a lot of JavaScript, with JavaScript specific extension points. 

Blue Ocean plugins are still just Jenkins plugins, delivered via the normal means, they just 
have the option of including JavaScript.

If you wish to make a plugin for blue ocean, some starting points: 

* Introduce yourself to the https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_blueocean-plugin:gitter.im[gitter chat room]. This is often the best place to start. There are many people there to help you get going.
* Read the https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-plugin#building-plugins-for-blue-ocean[README] with pointers on plugin development
* Get familiar with regular Jenkins plugin development (at least a very simple plugin)
* Read up a little on https://facebook.github.io/react/tutorial/tutorial.html[ReactJS] (not necessary but doesn't hurt)
* Take a look at the https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-blueocean-usain[Blue Ocean plugin] generator utility
* Take a look at a real plugin (non trivial) - https://github.com/jenkinsci/blueocean-pipeline-editor-plugin[the visual pipeline editor].

For those with a more graphical focus, you will want to take a look at the https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-design-language[Jenkins Design Language repository].
