content/blog/2024/12/03/2024-12-03-election-results.adoc, before:

---
layout: post
title: "2024 Jenkins Board and Officer Election Results"
tags:
- community
- governance
- governance-board
- elections
authors:
- markewaite
- basil
opengraph:
  image: /images/governance/elections/2024/opengraph.png
description: >
  This blogpost summarizes the 2024 election results
---

image:/images/governance/elections/2024/opengraph.png[Jenkins Elections, role=center, float=right, height=178]

The Jenkins community has completed the 2024 elections.
On behalf of the Jenkins community and the elections committee,
we congratulate all newly elected board members and officers!
We also thank all candidates and voters who participated this year.

Election results:

* link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#NotMyFault[Alexander Brandes], link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#jonesbusy[Valentin Delaye], and link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#slide_o_mix-board[Alex Earl] join link:/blog/authors/basil/[Basil Crow] and link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] on the link:/project/governance/#governance-board[Jenkins Governance Board]
* link:/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#release[Release Officer]
* link:/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/kmartens27/[Kevin Martens] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer] (uncontested)

The board positions and officer roles are an essential part of the Jenkins project and we are excited to see contributors taking these roles.

The board continues to require that no single company may have a majority on the Jenkins governance board.

== Governance Board election details

This year we had link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#board-candidates[six candidates] for the Jenkins Governance Board and link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#officer-candidates[two candidates] for Release Officer.
All of them are awesome community leaders who actively contribute to the Jenkins project and represent its users.

This year elected 3 governance board members, including a replacement for link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[Kohsuke Kawaguchi] after his many years of service to Jenkins.
We used the https://civs.cs.cornell.edu/[Condorcet Internet Voting Service] that allows voters to rank their choices rather than just picking their one favorite choice.
You can find voting results in the link:https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_f287a2e101977dc8[governance board poll] and the link:https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_4c3443416941563c[release officer poll].

All board members are elected for a 2-year term.
The estimated end of the term for them is December 1, 2026.

== Officer election details

All 5 officer positions were up for election this year.
These roles have a 1-year term, with the estimated end of term on December 1, 2025.
After the initial review of nominations and confirmations with potential candidates, 4 officer positions were uncontested:

* **Alyssa Tong** - link:/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer]
* **Damien Duportal** - link:/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer]
* **Wadeck Follonier** - link:/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer]
* **Kevin Martens** - link:/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer]

Thanks to all Jenkins officers for their continued leadership!
Officers take responsibility for many day-to-day processes in the Jenkins community and lead the contributor teams working on them.
It requires significant time commitment and it is not taken for granted.

=== Statistics

This year we had 81 registered voters and around 60 actual votes.

== Feedback

The Jenkins project plans to conduct elections every year.
We appreciate and welcome feedback regarding the election process so that we can improve the process.

If you have any private feedback you would like to share, please send an email to the mailto:jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com[Jenkins Board].
If you would like to raise any issues about the election process, please contact one of the elected Governance Board members.

Commit message:

Extend check for hard coded URLs to more adoc files (#8615)
* Extend check for hard coded URLs to more adoc files

Fixes #8608

Make the implementation match the comment by skipping the check on
trusted.ci.jenkins.io

* Replace https://www.jenkins.io/ and https://jenkins.io/

* Remove example to create issue reporting link

* Remove jenkins.io from referenced URL

* Remove more incorrect URL usages

* Replace incorrect URL usages

* Undo change to redirect

Leave old blog post unchanged when we can

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Daniel Beck <1831569+daniel-beck@users.noreply.github.com>

* Exclude /jep as another form of /redirect/

---------

Co-authored-by: Kris Stern <88480540+krisstern@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Beck <1831569+daniel-beck@users.noreply.github.com>

content/blog/2024/12/03/2024-12-03-election-results.adoc, after:

---
layout: post
title: "2024 Jenkins Board and Officer Election Results"
tags:
- community
- governance
- governance-board
- elections
authors:
- markewaite
- basil
opengraph:
  image: /images/governance/elections/2024/opengraph.png
description: >
  This blogpost summarizes the 2024 election results
---

image:/images/governance/elections/2024/opengraph.png[Jenkins Elections, role=center, float=right, height=178]

The Jenkins community has completed the 2024 elections.
On behalf of the Jenkins community and the elections committee,
we congratulate all newly elected board members and officers!
We also thank all candidates and voters who participated this year.

Election results:

* link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#NotMyFault[Alexander Brandes], link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#jonesbusy[Valentin Delaye], and link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#slide_o_mix-board[Alex Earl] join link:/blog/authors/basil/[Basil Crow] and link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite] on the link:/project/governance/#governance-board[Jenkins Governance Board]
* link:/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#release[Release Officer]
* link:/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer] (uncontested)
* link:/blog/authors/kmartens27/[Kevin Martens] will continue as link:/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer] (uncontested)

The board positions and officer roles are an essential part of the Jenkins project and we are excited to see contributors taking these roles.

The board continues to require that no single company may have a majority on the Jenkins governance board.

== Governance Board election details

This year we had link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#board-candidates[six candidates] for the Jenkins Governance Board and link:/blog/2024/10/03/jenkins-election-candidates/#officer-candidates[two candidates] for Release Officer.
All of them are awesome community leaders who actively contribute to the Jenkins project and represent its users.

This year elected 3 governance board members, including a replacement for link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[Kohsuke Kawaguchi] after his many years of service to Jenkins.
We used the https://civs.cs.cornell.edu/[Condorcet Internet Voting Service] that allows voters to rank their choices rather than just picking their one favorite choice.
You can find voting results in the link:https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_f287a2e101977dc8[governance board poll] and the link:https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_4c3443416941563c[release officer poll].

All board members are elected for a 2-year term.
The estimated end of the term for them is December 1, 2026.

== Officer election details

All 5 officer positions were up for election this year.
These roles have a 1-year term, with the estimated end of term on December 1, 2025.
After the initial review of nominations and confirmations with potential candidates, 4 officer positions were uncontested:

* **Alyssa Tong** - link:/project/team-leads/#events[Events Officer]
* **Damien Duportal** - link:/project/team-leads/#infrastructure[Infrastructure Officer]
* **Wadeck Follonier** - link:/project/team-leads/#security[Security Officer]
* **Kevin Martens** - link:/project/team-leads/#documentation[Documentation Officer]

Thanks to all Jenkins officers for their continued leadership!
Officers take responsibility for many day-to-day processes in the Jenkins community and lead the contributor teams working on them.
It requires significant time commitment and it is not taken for granted.

=== Statistics

This year we had 81 registered voters and around 60 actual votes.

== Feedback

The Jenkins project plans to conduct elections every year.
We appreciate and welcome feedback regarding the election process so that we can improve the process.

If you have any private feedback you would like to share, please send an email to the mailto:jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com[Jenkins Board].
If you would like to raise any issues about the election process, please contact one of the elected Governance Board members.
