content/doc/book/using/searchbox.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Search Box
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:imagesdir: ../../resources
endif::[]


= Using Search Box

Every page in Jenkins has a search box on its top right that lets you get to your destination quickly, without multiple clicks.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/search/box.png[image]

For example, if you type "foo #53 console", you'll be taken to the console output page of the "foo" job build #53.
If you have "XYZ" view, just type "XYZ" to get to that view.
The search box comes with auto-completion to assist you.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/search/dropdown.png[image]

The search box is also context sensitive.
If you are already somewhere in the foo job (perhaps you are looking at another build), then you can just type "#53 console" instead of "foo #53 console".
If you are already somewhere in the foo #53 (maybe you are looking at test report), then you can just type "console" to get to the same page.

[[SearchBox-Caseinsensitivesearch]]
=== Case insensitive search

If you want the search box to be case insensitive, go to your profile configuration page (/jenkins/user/<your profile>/configure) and activate the case insensitive search option.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/search/case-sensitivity.png[image]

Please note that case-insensitive search is not available for anonymous (not logged in) users.

[[SearchBox-OpenSearchsupport]]
=== OpenSearch support

This search box feature is also exposed to the browser through http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenSearch[OpenSearch], so you can install this search and auto-completion feature to your browser search box. This would further reduce the overhead it takes for you to visit a particular page in Jenkins.

For example in Firefox, you can add the Jenkins search to your browser's search engines via the dropdown on the right of the address bar:

[.boxshadow]
image:using/search/add-to-firefox.png[image]

[[SearchBox-Feedbackappreciated]]
=== Feedback appreciated

There's always a room for improvements in how Jenkins associates search terms with actual pages. Your feedback is appreciated.

Commit message:

Updating search documentation for Command Palette

content/doc/book/using/searchbox.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Command Palette
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:imagesdir: ../../resources
endif::[]


= Using Command Palette

Jenkins now features a brand-new search experience known as *Command Palette*.
It can be found in the upper-right corner of the page next to your name, and lets you search across everything in Jenkins.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/command-palette/search-icon.png[Updated search icon from Command Palette.]

For example, typing in "git #23 console" shows results for the console output page of "git job build #23".
The Command Palette feature utilizes auto-completion to help you find what you're looking for.
Results can include additional search terms for narrowing results, Pipelines, Views, additional features installed within your Jenkins environment like the Design Library, and specific pages within jobs based on your installed plugins, such as the plugin:warnings-ng[Warnings] plugin.
Search results also provide more clarity in the form of icons to help indicate Jenkins features and job statuses.

The Command Palette is also accessible via keyboard commands for macOS (`CMD+k`) and Windows/Linux (`CTRL+K`), making it even easier to search across your environmenmt.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/command-palette/auto-complete-results.png[Auto-complete results from typing into the Command Palette.]

[[SearchBox-Caseinsensitivesearch]]
=== Case insensitive search

If you want the search to be case insensitive, go to your profile preferences page (/jenkins/user/<your_profile>/preferences) and activate the case insensitive search option.

[.boxshadow]
image:using/command-palette/case-sensitivity.png[Case insensitivity checkbox in user preferences.]

Please note that case-insensitive search is not available for anonymous (not logged-in) users.

[[SearchBox-OpenSearchsupport]]
=== OpenSearch support

This search feature is also exposed to the browser through http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenSearch[OpenSearch], so you can install this search and auto-completion feature to your browser search box.
This would further reduce the overhead it takes for you to visit a particular page in Jenkins.

For example in Firefox, you can add the Jenkins search to your browser's search engines via the dropdown on the right of the address bar:

[.boxshadow]
image:using/command-palette/add-to-firefox.png[image]

[[SearchBox-Feedbackappreciated]]
=== Feedback appreciated

There's always room for improvement in how Jenkins associates search terms with actual pages.
Your feedback is appreciated.
