content/projects/gsoc/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: project
title: "Jenkins in Google Summer of Code 2025"
description: "Landing page for the Google Summer of Code program in the Jenkins project"
section: projects
tags:
- gsoc
sig: gsoc
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
links:
  gitter: "jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im"
  meetings: "/projects/gsoc/#office-hours"
---

// image:/images/gsoc/jenkins-gsoc-logo_small.png[Jenkins GSoC, role=center, float=left]
link:https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code]
(GSoC) is a global, online program focused on bringing students and new contributors into open source software development. GSoC Contributors work with an open source organization on a 12+ weeks-long programming project under the guidance of dedicated mentors.

GSoC contributors accepted into the program receive a stipend and are sponsored by Google, to work on well-defined projects to improve or enhance the Jenkins project.
In exchange, numerous Jenkins community members volunteer as "mentors" for the selected GSoC contributors to help integrate them into the open source community and succeed in completing their projects.

image:/images/gsoc/opengraph.png[Jenkins GSoC, role=center, float=center]

== GSoC 2025

// We are planning to participate in Google Summer of Code in 2025. +

We are participating in Google Summer of Code in 2025. +
// See our link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FYOBo12qz24Vxq0TxWuv9ElHH_rHP51ouMsPms4tTmw/edit?usp=sharing[Jenkins GSoC Mentoring Org Application Form].
Google has accepted us as a mentoring organization in Google Summer of Code 2025.
See our link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp[Jenkins organization page on the GSoC website].

// Uncomment when application is worked on and submitted (Feb 2025)
//(link:./2025/application[Jenkins GSoC Organisation Application Form])

The five selected projects for 2025 are:

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/ai-powered-chatbot-for-quick-access-to-jenkins-resources[AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources] with link:https://github.com/giovanni-vaccarino/[Giovanni Vaccarino] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/complete-alternative-jenkins-io-build-retooling[Complete build retooling of jenkins.io] with link:https://github.com/biru-codeastromer/[Birajit Saikia] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/domain-specific-LLM-based-on-jenkins-usage-using-ci-jenkins-io-data[Domain-specific LLM based on actual Jenkins usage using ci.jenkins.io data] with link:https://github.com/chiruu12/[Chirag Gupta] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/improving-tekton-client-plugin[Improving Tekton Client Plugin for Jenkins] with link:https://github.com/maeveho25/[Maeve Ho] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/plugin-modernizer-improvements[Improving Plugin Modernizer] with link:https://github.com/CodexRaunak/[Raunak Madan] as the GSoC contributor.

They were proposed and selected from these link:./2025/project-ideas[project ideas].

// We have finalised a list of 11 project ideas, 8 of which are accepted ones.
// Add your ideas by submitting an ad-hoc pull request as explained in our previous link:/blog/2022/11/16/gsoc-2023/[GSoC blog post].

// The 2025 GSoC project ideas link:./2025/project-ideas[can be found here].

NOTE: Every year, there are changes in how GSoC is organized.
Jenkins GSoC documentation may be outdated in some places, please refer to the https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[official GSoC website] as a source of truth.
Our documentation will be updated over time to reflect the changes in the GSoC program, please report any issues you encounter via our GitHub issue tracker.

== GSoC Contributors

* link:/projects/gsoc/contributors[Information and application guidelines for GSoC contributors]
// * Online Meetup: Introduction to Jenkins in GSoC
// (link:https://bit.ly/3pbJFuC[slides],
// link:https://youtu.be/GDRTgEvIVBc[video])
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp[Jenkins organization page on the GSoC website]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]

== Mentors

Mentors are volunteers who help GSoC contributors to succeed in their projects.
If you are interested in contributing to GSoC as a mentor, and have had either some GSoC contributor experience or have done mentoring before, please do not hesitate to reach out to us.
We are always looking for new mentors to help us with the program.

* link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[Information for mentors]
* link:/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas[HOWTO: Propose a project idea]
* link:/projects/gsoc/roles-and-responsibilities[Roles and Responsibilities]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]
* link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc-mentors/25[Mentor's Dedicated Discourse group]

== Org Admins

Org Admins are the people managing the GSoC program for the Jenkins Organization.
For 2025, our Org Admins are:

* Alyssa Tong
* Kris Stern
* Bruno Verachten

The following checklists and documents describe the role:

* link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tShnTyka5fdBxaE0c93ptu-J_XTlSf3tKwJemhx5_nA/edit?usp=sharing[Org Admin runbook for the Jenkins project]
* link:https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/help/oa-tips[Org Admin tips by Google]

== Contacts

* We use the link:/sigs/gsoc[GSoC SIG] for communications about GSoC.
Projects may also have their own mailing lists, chats, and meetings.
Please take a look at the details on each of the project pages.
* We use link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[Discourse] for discussions.
  This is the **recommended** channel for communications.
* There is also a link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[GSoC Gitter channel] for real-time communications, but it is better to use Discourse to request technical feedback or to have long-form discussions.
* For private matters such as communication difficulties with mentors, GSoC contributors, or Org Admins,
  please use this mailto:gsoc-jenkins-org-admin@googlegroups.com[group email].

=== GSoC Discourse

Public communication channel: link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[GSoC Discourse].

The purpose of GSoC Discourse is for all public communications on GSoC such as new mentor and new GSoC contributor introductions, project proposal questions and discussions, process and timeline related questions.

=== Chats

* link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[GSoC Gitter channel] for organizational topics related to Jenkins in GSoC
* Project-specific chats, see project and project idea pages
* link:/chat/[Common developer chats] for technical topics

=== Office hours

Although we use Discourse as the main communication channel, we will have regular "office hours" video calls.
During these time slots Jenkins GSoC org admins and mentors are available for any GSoC-related questions.

// * Schedule: Weekly 30 minutes meetings. Office hours will be held on Thursdays at 13:00 UTC.
//   Use the link:/event-calendar[Jenkins event calendar] to view the meeting time in your own time zone.
// * link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UykfAHpPYtSx-r_PQIRikz2QUrX1SG-ySriz20rVmE0/edit?usp=sharing[Agenda]
// * Meetings are commonly recorded on-demand and posted link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaODwGnSZzxjV6-6mqRfcoBe[here].

// This meeting will be used for Q&A with GSoC applicants/contributors and mentors before the announcement of accepted projects as well as during the GSoC program.
// You can add the office hours to your calendar when you visit the link:/event-calendar[Jenkins event calendar].
// More slots may be added on-demand, e.g. for project-specific discussions.

In addition to these organization-wide meetings, each GSoC project will hold regular meetings during community bonding and coding phases.
// Please take a look at the project pages for the schedule.

== Previous years

* link:/projects/gsoc/2024[GSoC 2024] - 5 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2023[GSoC 2023] - 4 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2022[GSoC 2022] - 4 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2021[GSoC 2021] - 5 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2020[GSoC 2020] - 7 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2019[GSoC 2019] - 7 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2018[GSoC 2018] - 3 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/gsoc2017[GSoC 2017] - not accepted
* link:/projects/gsoc/gsoc2016[GSoC 2016] - 5 contributor projects
* link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Google+Summer+of+Code+2009[GSoC 2009] - as Hudson, not accepted

== References, 2025

* link:./2025/project-ideas[GSoC 2025 project ideas]
// * link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp/[Jenkins page on the GSoC website]
// * link:/blog/2025/02/23/gsoc2025-announcement/[Jenkins GSoC 2025 announcement]
// * link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/2022/11/get-ready-for-google-summer-of-code-2023.html[Google GSoC 2025 announcement blog]


== GSoC Do's and Don'ts
We have a set of guidelines for GSoC contributors and mentors to help them succeed in the program. For details see:

* link:/projects/gsoc/dos-and-donts[GSoC Do's and Don'ts]

== References

You can find more information about GSoC in Jenkins below.

* link:/sigs/gsoc[Jenkins GSoC Special Interest Group]
* link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach/outreach-programs/[Other outreach programs in Jenkins]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]

Commit message:

Update gsoc midterm presentation (#8310)
* Add midterm presentations to GSoC page

* update link destination

---------

Co-authored-by: Kris Stern <krisstern@outlook.com>

content/projects/gsoc/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: project
title: "Jenkins in Google Summer of Code 2025"
description: "Landing page for the Google Summer of Code program in the Jenkins project"
section: projects
tags:
- gsoc
sig: gsoc
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
links:
  gitter: "jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im"
  meetings: "/projects/gsoc/#office-hours"
---

// image:/images/gsoc/jenkins-gsoc-logo_small.png[Jenkins GSoC, role=center, float=left]
link:https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code]
(GSoC) is a global, online program focused on bringing students and new contributors into open source software development. GSoC Contributors work with an open source organization on a 12+ weeks-long programming project under the guidance of dedicated mentors.

GSoC contributors accepted into the program receive a stipend and are sponsored by Google, to work on well-defined projects to improve or enhance the Jenkins project.
In exchange, numerous Jenkins community members volunteer as "mentors" for the selected GSoC contributors to help integrate them into the open source community and succeed in completing their projects.

image:/images/gsoc/opengraph.png[Jenkins GSoC, role=center, float=center]

== GSoC 2025

// We are planning to participate in Google Summer of Code in 2025. +

We are participating in Google Summer of Code in 2025. +
// See our link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FYOBo12qz24Vxq0TxWuv9ElHH_rHP51ouMsPms4tTmw/edit?usp=sharing[Jenkins GSoC Mentoring Org Application Form].
Google has accepted us as a mentoring organization in Google Summer of Code 2025.
See our link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp[Jenkins organization page on the GSoC website].

// Uncomment when application is worked on and submitted (Feb 2025)
//(link:./2025/application[Jenkins GSoC Organisation Application Form])

The five selected projects for 2025 are:

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/ai-powered-chatbot-for-quick-access-to-jenkins-resources[AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources] with link:https://github.com/giovanni-vaccarino/[Giovanni Vaccarino] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/complete-alternative-jenkins-io-build-retooling[Complete build retooling of jenkins.io] with link:https://github.com/biru-codeastromer/[Birajit Saikia] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/domain-specific-LLM-based-on-jenkins-usage-using-ci-jenkins-io-data[Domain-specific LLM based on actual Jenkins usage using ci.jenkins.io data] with link:https://github.com/chiruu12/[Chirag Gupta] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/improving-tekton-client-plugin[Improving Tekton Client Plugin for Jenkins] with link:https://github.com/maeveho25/[Maeve Ho] as the GSoC contributor.

* link:/projects/gsoc/2025/projects/plugin-modernizer-improvements[Improving Plugin Modernizer] with link:https://github.com/CodexRaunak/[Raunak Madan] as the GSoC contributor.

They were proposed and selected from these link:./2025/project-ideas[project ideas].

// We have finalised a list of 11 project ideas, 8 of which are accepted ones.
// Add your ideas by submitting an ad-hoc pull request as explained in our previous link:/blog/2022/11/16/gsoc-2023/[GSoC blog post].

// The 2025 GSoC project ideas link:./2025/project-ideas[can be found here].

NOTE: Every year, there are changes in how GSoC is organized.
Jenkins GSoC documentation may be outdated in some places, please refer to the https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[official GSoC website] as a source of truth.
Our documentation will be updated over time to reflect the changes in the GSoC program, please report any issues you encounter via our GitHub issue tracker.

The 2025 GSoC midterm presentations have been delivered and are available in link:https://youtu.be/serD66DmEeU[a singular recording on the Jenkins Youtube channel].

== GSoC Contributors

* link:/projects/gsoc/contributors[Information and application guidelines for GSoC contributors]
// * Online Meetup: Introduction to Jenkins in GSoC
// (link:https://bit.ly/3pbJFuC[slides],
// link:https://youtu.be/GDRTgEvIVBc[video])
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp[Jenkins organization page on the GSoC website]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]

== Mentors

Mentors are volunteers who help GSoC contributors to succeed in their projects.
If you are interested in contributing to GSoC as a mentor, and have had either some GSoC contributor experience or have done mentoring before, please do not hesitate to reach out to us.
We are always looking for new mentors to help us with the program.

* link:/projects/gsoc/mentors[Information for mentors]
* link:/projects/gsoc/proposing-project-ideas[HOWTO: Propose a project idea]
* link:/projects/gsoc/roles-and-responsibilities[Roles and Responsibilities]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]
* link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc-mentors/25[Mentor's Dedicated Discourse group]

== Org Admins

Org Admins are the people managing the GSoC program for the Jenkins Organization.
For 2025, our Org Admins are:

* Alyssa Tong
* Kris Stern
* Bruno Verachten

The following checklists and documents describe the role:

* link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tShnTyka5fdBxaE0c93ptu-J_XTlSf3tKwJemhx5_nA/edit?usp=sharing[Org Admin runbook for the Jenkins project]
* link:https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/help/oa-tips[Org Admin tips by Google]

== Contacts

* We use the link:/sigs/gsoc[GSoC SIG] for communications about GSoC.
Projects may also have their own mailing lists, chats, and meetings.
Please take a look at the details on each of the project pages.
* We use link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[Discourse] for discussions.
  This is the **recommended** channel for communications.
* There is also a link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[GSoC Gitter channel] for real-time communications, but it is better to use Discourse to request technical feedback or to have long-form discussions.
* For private matters such as communication difficulties with mentors, GSoC contributors, or Org Admins,
  please use this mailto:gsoc-jenkins-org-admin@googlegroups.com[group email].

=== GSoC Discourse

Public communication channel: link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/contributing/gsoc/6[GSoC Discourse].

The purpose of GSoC Discourse is for all public communications on GSoC such as new mentor and new GSoC contributor introductions, project proposal questions and discussions, process and timeline related questions.

=== Chats

* link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_gsoc-sig:gitter.im[GSoC Gitter channel] for organizational topics related to Jenkins in GSoC
* Project-specific chats, see project and project idea pages
* link:/chat/[Common developer chats] for technical topics

=== Office hours

Although we use Discourse as the main communication channel, we will have regular "office hours" video calls.
During these time slots Jenkins GSoC org admins and mentors are available for any GSoC-related questions.

// * Schedule: Weekly 30 minutes meetings. Office hours will be held on Thursdays at 13:00 UTC.
//   Use the link:/event-calendar[Jenkins event calendar] to view the meeting time in your own time zone.
// * link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UykfAHpPYtSx-r_PQIRikz2QUrX1SG-ySriz20rVmE0/edit?usp=sharing[Agenda]
// * Meetings are commonly recorded on-demand and posted link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaODwGnSZzxjV6-6mqRfcoBe[here].

// This meeting will be used for Q&A with GSoC applicants/contributors and mentors before the announcement of accepted projects as well as during the GSoC program.
// You can add the office hours to your calendar when you visit the link:/event-calendar[Jenkins event calendar].
// More slots may be added on-demand, e.g. for project-specific discussions.

In addition to these organization-wide meetings, each GSoC project will hold regular meetings during community bonding and coding phases.
// Please take a look at the project pages for the schedule.

== Previous years

* link:/projects/gsoc/2024[GSoC 2024] - 5 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2023[GSoC 2023] - 4 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2022[GSoC 2022] - 4 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2021[GSoC 2021] - 5 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2020[GSoC 2020] - 7 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2019[GSoC 2019] - 7 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/2018[GSoC 2018] - 3 contributor projects
* link:/projects/gsoc/gsoc2017[GSoC 2017] - not accepted
* link:/projects/gsoc/gsoc2016[GSoC 2016] - 5 contributor projects
* link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Google+Summer+of+Code+2009[GSoC 2009] - as Hudson, not accepted

== References, 2025

* link:./2025/project-ideas[GSoC 2025 project ideas]
// * link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2025/organizations/jenkins-wp/[Jenkins page on the GSoC website]
// * link:/blog/2025/02/23/gsoc2025-announcement/[Jenkins GSoC 2025 announcement]
// * link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/2022/11/get-ready-for-google-summer-of-code-2023.html[Google GSoC 2025 announcement blog]


== GSoC Do's and Don'ts
We have a set of guidelines for GSoC contributors and mentors to help them succeed in the program. For details see:

* link:/projects/gsoc/dos-and-donts[GSoC Do's and Don'ts]

== References

You can find more information about GSoC in Jenkins below.

* link:/sigs/gsoc[Jenkins GSoC Special Interest Group]
* link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach/outreach-programs/[Other outreach programs in Jenkins]
* link:https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/[Google Summer of Code portal]
