---
layout: simplepage
title: "Jenkins Governance Meeting Archive 2011"
section: project
---

This page is an archive of past meeting agendas, their minutes and IRC logs, for the year shown above.
For current information, see the link:/project/governance-meeting[Governance Meeting] page.

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-Dec14thMeeting]]
== Dec 14th Meeting

WHEN
http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20111214T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[December
14th 19:00 UTC], which should be 11am PST, 2pm EST, 8pm CET, 4am Tokyo.

* Recap last meeting's action items
* Infra update (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)])
* Add link:/blog/authors/aheritier[
(aheritier)] to the "users-core" puppet module, giving him administrator
access on all Jenkins infrastructure machines.
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-12-14-19.03.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-12-14-19.03.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-Nov30thMeeting]]
== Nov 30th Meeting

WHEN
http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20111130T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[November
30th 19:00 UTC], which should be 11am PST, 2pm EST, 8pm CET, 4am Tokyo.

* Recap last meeting action items
* infra update (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)])
* Discuss plans for exhibiting at
http://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale10x/jenkins-ci[SCALE 10x] on January
20-22 in Los Angeles, CA.
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Discuss plans for http://www.fosdem.org/2012/[FOSDEM 2012]. What
should we do (dev room talk? lightning talk? Jenkins stand?), and who
will be going? (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)])
* Jenkins CIA program link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[(kohsuke)]
* Context: people like http://t.co/CYzvqOUB[those Jenkins stickers].
We'd like to use them well to spread words about Jenkins.
* LTS 1.424.1 release (vjuranek)

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-11-30-19.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-11-30-19.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-Nov9thMeeting]]
== Nov 9th Meeting

WHEN
http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Governance+Meeting&iso=20111109T11&p1=283[November
9th 19:00 UTC], which should be 11am PST, 2pm EST, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Recap last meeting action items
* (*This was unaddressed in the last meeting*) State of the Jenkins
development environment (@kutzi)
** the environment makes it hard for part time developers to work in the
free time on Jenkins, because it's often broken. See
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-running-mvn-hudson-dev-run-td3906244.html[here]
or
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-building-Jenkins-core-java-lang-NoSuchMethodError-org-codehaus-groovy-ast-ModuleNode-getStarIm-td3868116.html[here] or
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-launching-JNLP-slave-when-running-hudson-dev-run-td3772780.html[here]
** What can we do about it?
* Add (jieryn) to
the "users-core" puppet module, giving him administrator access on all
Jenkins infrastructure machines.
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Appprove CloudBees request for the "Jenkins Enterprise from CloudBees"
use request as per
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Document[Governance
Document] (link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[
(kohsuke)])
* LTS discussion. Branch is ready, I say time for RC
(link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[(kohsuke)])
** Augmenting LTS Test Matrix with written test plans
(ryan)
** Backport of JENKINS-10989 and SECURITY-17 as
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/LTS-1-424-1-RC-td4015360.html#a4015852[suggested
by Romain] (vjuranek)
** Security advisory handling.

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-11-09-19.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-11-09-19.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-Oct26thMeeting]]
== Oct 26th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-10-26/18:00[October 26th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CEST, 3am Tokyo.

* State of the Jenkins development environment (@kutzi)
** the environment makes it hard for part time developers to work in the
free time on Jenkins, because it's often broken. See
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-running-mvn-hudson-dev-run-td3906244.html[here]
or
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-building-Jenkins-core-java-lang-NoSuchMethodError-org-codehaus-groovy-ast-ModuleNode-getStarIm-td3868116.html[here] or
http://jenkins.361315.n4.nabble.com/Error-launching-JNLP-slave-when-running-hudson-dev-run-td3772780.html[here]
** What can we do about it?
* Bringing old Jenkins plugins up to a common requiredCore (@jieryn)
* Infra update (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)])
** SPI donation status for cucumber

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-10-26-18.04.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-10-26-18.04.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForOct12thMeeting]]
== For Oct 12th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-10-12/18:00[October 12th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CEST, 3am Tokyo.

* Recap of last meeting's action items

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForSept28thMeeting]]
== For Sept 28th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-09-28/18:00[September 28th 18:00
UTC], which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CEST, 3am Tokyo.

* Recap of last meeting's action items
* Donation status update (@orrc)
** Awesome progress towards
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Donation[the goal]
** Can we make donating easier for companies/Europeans/recurring
payments? (see
http://groups.google.com/group/jenkinsci-users/browse_thread/thread/9a21a1ec4ea2a1cd#6cd5e5a4aa5b0776[this
thread])
* Choosing next LTS baseline candidate (Yahoo! folk?)
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Document[Governance
document] review/approval

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-09-28-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-09-28-18.02.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForSept14thMeeting]]
== For Sept 14th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-09-14/18:00[September 14th 18:00
UTC], which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CEST, 3am Tokyo.

* Recap of last meeting's action items (@rtyler)
* Donation status update
* https://groups.google.com/group/jenkinsci-dev/browse_frm/thread/04bbf72c3911ec99#[governance
document review]
* Choosing next LTS baseline candidate

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-09-14-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-09-14-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForAug31stMeeting(rescheduledfromAugust24th)]]
== For Aug 31st Meeting (rescheduled from August 24th)

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-08-31/18:00[August 31st 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CEST, 3am Tokyo.

* Plugin deprecations
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Proposed+Plugin+Deprecation
* Jenkins User Conference
http://jenkins-ci.org/content/jenkins-user-conference
* Jenkins Mailing List SPAM - can we enable spam protection? This would
require some trusted people to authorize first-time mail sources.
See http://groups.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=186997 for
further information. @jieryn
* There are about a dozen plugins with pull requests in excess of 30
days - what should we do about this? See
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Pending+Pull+Requests
@jieryn
* LTS 1.409.2 - test status, ready to release?, if yes, when will be
release @vjuranek
* Official commit workflow for core committers @dty
* Can we link this
page https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Issue+Tracking[Issue
Tracking] on a prominent place to get better bug reports? @kutzi
* Feedback on the request for official definitions of stable, unstable,
failure: https://issue-redirect.jenkins.io/issue/10763 @kutzi
* Donation drive to refill rtyler's pocketbook @rtyler
* Infra update from rtyler
** status of mirrors.jenkins-ci.org
** cabbage update

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-08-31-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-08-31-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForAug11thMeeting]]
== For Aug 11th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-08-11/18:00[August 11th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Plugin deprecations
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Proposed+Plugin+Deprecation
* Jenkins User Conference
http://jenkins-ci.org/content/jenkins-user-conference
* Trademark Registration Status
* Kohsuke wanted to discuss this (JENKINS-9488 - align topbar colors):
https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/179
* Adding olamy as an owner for jenkinsci on GitHub for additional
coverage/redundancy.
* When is it time to release a new LTS release?

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-08-11-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-08-11-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForJul20thMeeting]]
== For Jul 20th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-07-20/18:00[July 20th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

*

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForJul6thMeeting]]
== For Jul 6th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-07-06/18:00[July 6th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* How do we handle pull requests which are pending for a long time
** see http://echelog.matzon.dk/logs/browse/jenkins/1309816800 (since
~19:40) for a related discussion
* What is the current state of the
'https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/The+new+EMailer[The new
EMailer]' ?
** Maybe to get things going again, deprecate the built-in EMailer and
deliver email-ext bundled?
* Infra update from link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)] regarding new machines at the http://osuosl.org/[OSUOSL]
* CLA discussion. We should start collecting CLA for core, and our
current plan on the record was to reuse Apache CLA.

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-07-06-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-07-06-18.02.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForJun22ndMeeting]]
== For Jun 22nd Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-06-22/18:00[June 22nd 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Commit message formatting
* Talk about
the https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Archive+2011#[Test
Support Proposal] by Christoph Kutzinski
* What is the current state of the
'https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/The+new+EMailer[The new
EMailer]' ?
** Maybe to get things going again, deprecate the built-in EMailer and
deliver email-ext bundled?

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-06-22-18.05.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-06-22-18.05.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForJun8thMeeting]]
== For Jun 8th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-06-08/18:00[June 8th 18:00 UTC],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Foundation update
* LTS update
* Discussion: fixing the test harness

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-06-08-18.04.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-06-08-18.04.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForMay24thMeeting]]
== For May 24th Meeting

WHEN http://permatime.com/UTC/2011-05-24/16:00[May 24th 16:00 UTC],
which is 9am PDT, 12pm EDT, 6pm CEST, 1am Tokyo.

* Recap of
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-05-11-18.01.html[Action
items] from last meeting
* Discussion of
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Possible+Jenkins+Umbrella+Foundations[Possible
Jenkins Umbrella Foundations] and
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Archive+2011#[Jenkins
Hudson Reconciliation Requirements] community input, and what the next
steps are in both areas.
* Discuss state of the Jenkins test harness:
** Tests take ages to finish
** fail locally - with cryptic error messages - while succeeding on
Jenkins-on-Jenkins. See e.g. http://pastebin.com/49N472Xu 
** unit testing often isn't possible because of the Hudson god-class
resp. final classes

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-05-24-16.09.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-05-24-16.09.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForMay11thMeeting]]
== For May 11th Meeting

WHEN: http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-05-11/18:00[May 11th 6pm GMT], which
should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Discuss progress with SFC/SPI/ASF/EF regarding an umbrella
organization
* Decide whether a permalink from
http://www.jenkins-ci.org/node[jenkins-ci.org] to John Smart's "Jenkins:
The Definitive Guide" book is okay
* Discuss hardware access for drulli and olamy (primarily eggplant)
* Can the localization committers push their changes directly? If so,
please put the approval in the record(from tyuki39)
* Discuss status on the http://www.cafepress.com/jenkinsci[JenkinsCI
cafe press] store
* Discuss whether to add the git plugin to the core release bundle.
* Updates:
** Infra update from rtyler
*** Status of new machines at the OSUOSL
*** Status of MirrorBrain fixes/bandwidth allocation
*** Status of proper backups at Contegix
*** Discuss dealing with bandwidth issues and Debian APT clients (DNS
round robin to OSUOSL?)

MINUTES:
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-05-11-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-05-11-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForApril27thmeeting]]
== For April 27th meeting

WHEN: http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-04-27/18:00[April 27th 6pm GMT],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Updates
** fcamblor to report the progress/status on plugin compat tester
** Trademark registration status
** Infra updates from rtyler

MINUTES:
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-04-27-18.04.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-04-27-18.04.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForApril13thmeeting]]
== For April 13th meeting

WHEN: http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-04-13/18:00[April 13th 6pm GMT],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Review/discussion of aheritier's upcoming proposal for details of JIRA
project split.
* Updates:
** "ULTIMATE ROBO LOGO SHOWDOWN" results
** Trademark registration status
** SFC/SPI/Apache status

MINUTES:
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-04-13-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-04-13-18.02.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForMarch30thmeeting]]
== For March 30th meeting

WHEN: http://permatime.com/GMT/2011-03-30/18:00[March 30th 6pm GMT],
which should be 11am PDT, 2pm EDT, 8pm CET, 3am Tokyo.

* Review/discussion of aheritier's upcoming proposal for details of JIRA
project split.
* Updates:
** Logo contest status
** Trademark registration status
** SFC response?
* CLA discussion continued
* Discussion on the way we can strengthen plugins and avoid unnecessary
duplication/forks

MINUTES:
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-03-30-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-03-30-18.02.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForMarch16thmeeting]]
== For March 16th meeting

* WHEN: March 16th, 2pm PST/4pm EST/9pm GMT/10pm CET

* Review/discussion of aheritier's upcoming proposal for details of JIRA
project split.
* Updates:
** Trademark registration status
** SFC response?
* Discussion whether requiring a CLA is beneficial or not.
* Logo contest status
* Infra hardware status

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2011-ForMarch2ndMeeting]]
== For March 2nd Meeting

* Discuss what updates should be made to
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Archive+2011#[Copyright
on source code]
* Any conclusions to the
http://groups.google.com/group/jenkinsci-dev/browse_thread/thread/6896f52428556beb[stable-branch/endorsed-release]
discussion
** QA processes in core, e.g. introduction of code review?
* Update on the long-term governance plans / progress on umbrella
organisation
