---
layout: simplepage
title: "Jenkins Governance Meeting Archive 2016"
section: project
---

This page is an archive of past meeting agendas, their minutes and IRC logs, for the year shown above.
For current information, see the link:/project/governance-meeting[Governance Meeting] page.

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Dec21meeting]]
== Dec 21 meeting

WHEN Dec 21 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* FOSDEM 2017 Plans (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[
(atong)])
** https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/FOSDEM+2017
* Infra update
* JDK8 baseline upgrade followup,
https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/fo5nKLhZK5U/IRJdMeS6CgAJ[timeline
proposed by Oliver] link:/blog/authors/batmat[
(batmat)] (will be absent
image:https://wiki.jenkins.io/s/en_GB/8100/5084f018d64a97dc638ca9a178856f851ea353ff/_/images/icons/emoticons/sad.svg[(sad)]
)
** https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/fo5nKLhZK5U/uh3IK_fzEAAJ[Plan/timeline
to fix Windows issue compatible with Oliver's ^]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-12-21-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-12-21-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Dec7meeting]]
== Dec 7 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20161207T18&p1=1440&ah=1[Dec
7 18:00 UTC].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
** Is Kohsuke OK releasing 2.32.1 on 2016-12-21 or should we postpone to
2017-01-04?
** Should we just skip two weeks around Christmas like we did last year,
postpone .2 RC from Jan 4 to Jan 18?
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* JDK8 as baseline, with the
https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/fo5nKLhZK5U/IRJdMeS6CgAJ[timeline
proposed by Oliver] link:/blog/authors/batmat[
(batmat)]
* New Security Officer announcement
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-12-07-18.03.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-12-07-18.03.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Nov23meeting]]
== Nov 23 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20161123T18&p1=1440&ah=1[Nov
23 18:00 UTC].

* LTS base line selection
* Revival of the Klocwork plugin
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** The plugin is hosted outside jenkinsci org, but it seems to be
abandoned by maintainers
** There is a ownership request:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!search/klocwork/jenkinsci-dev/U7SFVsjsHHQ/cA8SlsTgBQAJ[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!search/klocwork/jenkinsci-dev/U7SFVsjsHHQ/cA8SlsTgBQAJ|https://groups.google.com/forum/#!search/klocwork/jenkinsci-dev/U7SFVsjsHHQ/cA8SlsTgBQAJ]
** We need to discuss if we can just proceed with plugin process and to
grant the access to the requester
* GSoC2017 sync-up
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Do we participate in it? If yes, should we schedule office hours?
** Who will be Jenkins org admins this time?
link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)] will need some help
* Azure migration / Infrastructure update
link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-11-23-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-11-23-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Nov9meeting]]
== Nov 9 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20161109T18&p1=1440&ah=1[Nov
9 18:00 UTC].

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-11-09-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-11-09-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-October26meeting]]
== October 26 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20161026T18&p1=1440&ah=1[October
26 18:00 UTC].

We decided to switch to a fixed UTC-based time for the project meeting.
It's now always at 18:00 UTC. This is the first meeting at this new
time.

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-10-26-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-10-26-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-October12meeting]]
== October 12 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20161012T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[October
12 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* Bumping Jenkins core to Remoting 3
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Remoting 3 offers a new JNLP4 protocol (Adds Java NIO compared to
JNLP3 + stability fixes)
** Remoting 3 is formally incompatible: Java 6 support drop from slaves,
also JnlpServerHandshake rework:
https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/2492
** link:/blog/authors/stephenc[~stephenc] checked known
OSS and closed-source implementations, no real compatibility issues
** Question for voting: Do we want to go forward?
* Out-of-order Jenkins Weekly release in order to get better soak
testing for 2.19.3
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Question for voting: Do we want to release it if kohsuke is available?
** https://issue-redirect.jenkins.io/issue/38814[JENKINS-38814],
https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/commit/a04e2f9836263f7ae5e68617f5bafde18e594446
* IntelliJ license handling
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Moving Governance Meetings to UTC
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Plugin site deployment to Jenkins project infra
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Allowing interface implementations as Extension points in Jenkins
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Background: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/2566
** ** Question for voting: Do we want to allow such use-case?

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-10-12-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-10-12-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-September28meeting]]
== September 28 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160928T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[September
28 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* Discuss
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-users/hP8uwU0y8K4[name
use for Jenkins-LSCI] (Life Science Continuous Integration)
(ioannis)
* Patron messages (link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-09-28-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-09-28-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-September14meeting]]
== September 14 meeting

*Skipped due to Jenkins World.*

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-August31meeting]]
== August 31 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160831T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[August
31 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* Pick new LTS version
(﻿link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-31-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-31-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-August17meeting]]
== August 17 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160817T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[August
17 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-17-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-17-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-August3meeting]]
== August 3 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160803T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[August
3 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-03-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-08-03-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-July20meeting]]
== July 20 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160720T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[July
20 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Obtain permission to post Jenkins World banner
on http://issues.jenkins.io/[issues.jenkins.io] and
wiki.jenkins-ci.org (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[
(atong)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-07-20-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-07-20-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-July6meeting]]
== July 6 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160706T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[July
6 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-07-06-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-07-06-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-June22meeting]]
== June 22 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160622T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[June
22 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Officer updates
** Security status update
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
** Events status update (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[(atong)])
** Release status update
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* Infra update (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)])
* Licensing and unrestricted access of
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Usage+Statistics[Usage
Statistics] (aka "census data")
http://lists.jenkins-ci.org/pipermail/jenkins-infra/2016-June/000742.html[more
context here] link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)]
* Approval of new Q3 patron messages
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-06-22-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-06-22-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-June8meeting]]
== June 8 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160608T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[June
8 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* Next LTS baseline selection
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Q3 patron messages
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Licensing and unrestricted access of
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Usage+Statistics[Usage
Statistics] (aka "census data")
http://lists.jenkins-ci.org/pipermail/jenkins-infra/2016-June/000742.html[more
context here] link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[
(rtyler)]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-06-08-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-06-08-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-May25meeting]]
== May 25 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160525T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[May
25 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-05-25-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-05-25-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-May11meeting]]
== May 11 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160511T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[May
11 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC status check
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Infrastructure status update
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Security status update
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Events status update (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[(atong)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-05-11-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-05-11-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Apr27meeting]]
== Apr 27 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160427T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Apr
27 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* 2.0 status check
* Approval of Q2 patron messages
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
** https://github.com/jenkinsci/patron/pull/11
* CERT membership request process changes
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Approval of CERT membership requests
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
** Andres Rodriguez:
https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/WQO16ziPoCA/E9lmmKeiFAAJ
** Antonio Muñiz:
https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/5_k8Uj5rErA/vTOyPnsZBwAJ
* GSoC status check (link:/blog/authors/batmat[(batmat)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-04-27-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-04-27-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Apr13meeting]]
== Apr 13 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160413T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Apr
13 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* 2.0 status check
* CERT membership request by Yoann Dubreuil
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
** https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/M9GeJFo_qcg/4Wax34DrBAAJ
* Jenkins 2.0 launch - go over activities of what has been planned for
this release (R. Tyler
Croy/link:/blog/authors/alyssat[(atong)])
** https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/2.0+Launch+Marketing

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-04-13-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-04-13-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Mar30meeting]]
== Mar 30 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160330T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Mar
30 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* 2.0 status check
* Check status for
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2015/jenkins.2015-02-18-19.01.html[action
3d] - JetBrains licenses
(integer)
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Google+Summer+Of+Code+2016[Google
Summer Of Code 2016] update
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/bmLARYolMig[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/bmLARYolMig|https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/bmLARYolMig]
* Release officer announcement
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Major infrastructure opportunity
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Update to CD Summit & Jenkins Days wiki
page (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[(atong)])
* Advance notice: Privacy affecting bug, 1.642.4 release
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-30-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-30-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Mar16meeting]]
== Mar 16 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160316T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Mar
16 11:00 Pacific].

It's DST change season: Make sure you're not
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-by-one_error[off by one] (hour)!

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* Next LTS baseline selection
* Seek trademark usage approval for "Jenkins Days"
(link:/blog/authors/kohsuke/[(kohsuke)])
* Infrastructure status update
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Events status update (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[(atong)])
* Security status update
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-16-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-16-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Mar2meeting]]
== Mar 2 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160302T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Mar
2 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* Board Election update (link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* 2.0 status check (link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
* Certification update from beta exams
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Conversion of
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Archive+2016#[Office
Hours] to Jenkins Online meetup
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/LMTCNDv-jgY[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/LMTCNDv-jgY|https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/LMTCNDv-jgY]
* Planning of GSoC office hours
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Application draft:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dv9UXyT_FPukJXrBYauIKvxrZeEU6BT7v90LSQX36MU/edit#
** We need: 1 public office hours, 1 bi-weekly mentor meeting

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-02-19.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-02-19.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Feb17meeting]]
== Feb 17 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160203T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Feb
17 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Jenkins+Certification[Jenkins
Certification] update and trademark approval request
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* New team lead positions: *Events* and *Release* (see
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Team+Leads[Team Leads])
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* (2nd run
image:https://wiki.jenkins.io/s/en_GB/8100/5084f018d64a97dc638ca9a178856f851ea353ff/_/images/icons/emoticons/smile.svg[(smile)]
) Discussion: clarify that plugins available through the update center
are required to have their source code canonical repository hosted under
the Jenkinsci GitHub organization
link:/blog/authors/batmat[(batmat)]
** For context
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/IoRmYHNn3Q4[the
last thread about it]
* (_time permitting_)
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Google+Summer+Of+Code+2016[Google
Summer Of Code 2016] application progress -
link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)]
** Mailing list:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/vTxsCLk1XS0[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/vTxsCLk1XS0|https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/vTxsCLk1XS0]
** Application draft:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dv9UXyT_FPukJXrBYauIKvxrZeEU6BT7v90LSQX36MU/edit#
** Wiki:
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Google+Summer+Of+Code+2016[Google
Summer Of Code 2016]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-02-17-19.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-02-17-19.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Feb3meeting]]
== Feb 3 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160203T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Feb
3 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* Seek
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Governance+Document#GovernanceDocument-Trademark[trademark
approval] for
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/download/attachments/54722987/Jenkins-World-revised-logo.jpg?version=1&modificationDate=1453408974536[Jenkins
World 2016 logo] (link:/blog/authors/alyssat[
(atong)])
* Infrastructure status report -
link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)]
* Should Jenkins be a mentor organisation for Google Summer of Code?
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Deadline is
https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline[19th February]
** Summary
slides: https://speakerdeck.com/onenashev/jenkins-2-dot-0-google-code-of-summer-proposals
* Do we have a timeline for the Governance Board elections?
(link:/blog/authors/orrc[(orrc)])
* Discussion: clarify that plugins available through the update center
are required to have their source code canonical repository hosted under
the Jenkinsci GitHub organization
link:/blog/authors/batmat[(batmat)]
** As a first step, only discuss the matter (hopefully with the board).
Only potentially on a future meeting may we want to settle on something
and act upon it.
** For context
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/IoRmYHNn3Q4[the
last thread about it]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-02-03-19.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-02-03-19.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Jan20meeting]]
== Jan 20 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160120T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Jan
20 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* Approving Jenkins Press page and assigned contacts:
https://jenkins-ci.org/press/&nbsp;
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Reworking / Shutting down the Jenkins CIA program
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/ktTrIZQlNTY[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/ktTrIZQlNTY|https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/ktTrIZQlNTY]
* Follow-up to the unofficial Jenkins-related Twitter account
(link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://twitter.com/LearningJenkins
** Aim: agree if "Learning Jenkins" with the unofficial resource notice
is fine
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/VhEGPZ9_IzA[Thread
in DEV mailing list]

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-01-20-19.03.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-01-20-19.03.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2016-Jan6meeting]]
== Jan 6 meeting

WHEN
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Jenkins+Governance+Meeting&iso=20160106T11&p1=224&ah=1&sort=1[Jan
6 11:00 Pacific].

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check - discuss baseline change:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#\!topic/jenkinsci-dev/K06ny0sozWM\|https://groups.google.com/forum/#\!topic/jenkinsci-dev/K06ny0sozWM
(https://groups.google.com/forum/#\!topic/jenkinsci-dev/K06ny0sozWM)
(link:/blog/authors/olivergondza[
(olivergondza)])
* Q1 Patron messages approval
(link:/blog/authors/daniel-beck/[(danielbeck)])
** PR: https://github.com/jenkinsci/patron/pull/8
* Review/adopt a
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Code+of+Conduct[Code of Conduct]
(link:/blog/authors/rtyler/[(rtyler)])
* Discuss requiring pull requests for all non-release-process changes to
core/master (link:/blog/authors/abayer[
(abayer)])
* Spam problems on wiki and possible solutions
(lshatzer)

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-01-06-19.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-01-06-19.01.log.html[raw]
