---
layout: simplepage
title: "Jenkins Governance Meeting Archive 2018"
section: project
---

This page is an archive of past meeting agendas, their minutes and IRC logs, for the year shown above.
For current information, see the link:/project/governance-meeting[Governance Meeting] page.

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Dec19]]
== Dec 19

WHEN December 19, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/MGZDWfhFaZI/Q6HdjOcHCQAJ[Trademark
sublicensing request "CloudBees Jenkins X
Distribution]https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ["] ((https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~bitwiseman[Unknown
User (bitwiseman)] )
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/jv8oFl9PMM4/HvGw7ksICQAJ[Trademark
sublicensing requests]
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~bitwiseman[Unknown User
(bitwiseman)] ) +
** Jenkins CI/CD Workshop by CloudBees
** Jenkins Jumpstart by CloudBees +
** Jenkins Virtuoso Workshop by CloudBees +
** Jenkins X Cloud Native CI/CD Workshop by CloudBees



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-12-19-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-12-19-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Dec5]]
== Dec 5

WHEN December 5, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ[Trademark
sublicensing request
"]https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/5uFXdnr6-k0/tHjewODYBgAJ[CloudBees
Jenkins X
Support]https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ["] (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown
User (tmiranda)])
* Java 11 preview availability - status update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)] )
* GSoC status Update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-12-05-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-12-05-18.01.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Nov21]]
== Nov 21

WHEN November 21, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC Update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown
User (oleg_nenashev)])
* Platform SIG update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
*  Outreachy update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown
User (tmiranda)])



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-11-21-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-11-21-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Nov7]]
== Nov 7

WHEN November 7, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* LTS next baseline selection
* Trademark sublicensing
request(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~surenpi[Unknown User
(surenpi)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/UveOvVO-gwQhttps://groups.google.com/d/topic/jenkinsci-dev/WdcOrRog2IQ/discussion[/discussion]
*  Outreachy update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown
User (tmiranda)])



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-11-07-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-11-07-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-October10]]
== October 10

WHEN: October 10, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* Participating in
Outreachy (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown User
(tmiranda)])
** https://groups.google.com/d/topic/jenkinsci-dev/WdcOrRog2IQ/discussion
* Trademark sublicensing request
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~kohsuke[Unknown User (kohsuke)] )
** https://groups.google.com/d/topic/jenkinsci-dev/VysVavIJCnc/discussion



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-10-10-17.59.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-10-10-17.59.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-September12]]
== September 12

WHEN: September 12, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* Participating in Hacktoberfest
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/YYG1CyvcbgE



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-09-26-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-09-26-18.02.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-August29meeting]]
== August 29 meeting

WHEN August 29, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC Summer of Code: Results
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Cloud Native SIG update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Platform SIG update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Jenkins Ambassador applicants: Request to approve 2 new applicants
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~atong[Unknown User (atong)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/Tp0Q1QAHP2k

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-29-18.04.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-29-18.04.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-August15meeting]]
== August 15 meeting

WHEN August 15, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting actions
* LTS status check
* LTS next baseline selection
* GSoC end-of-summer check



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-15.18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-15.18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-August1stmeeting]]
== August 1st meeting

WHEN: August 1st, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC status check
* Travel grant request to DevOps World - Jenkins World SF
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~mandyhubbard[Unknown User
(mandyhubbard)])
** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xbK9hbEMzg2oXNdxPDA6K-u3IWzbyVs2atqmzHu6VDE/edit?usp=sharing

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-01.18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-08-01.18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Jul18thmeeting]]
== Jul 18th meeting

WHEN: July 18th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
** http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-06-20-18.10.html
* LTS status check
* Vote for mass adding Jenkinsfiles
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~olivergondza[Unknown User
(olivergondza)]) +
** https://groups.google.com/d/topic/jenkinsci-dev/6f_wKvfpESk/discussion
* Growing community via a stronger Twitter presence
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown User (tmiranda)]) +
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/gqR_ee5grtM +
* Jenkins Ambassader
applicants (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~bitwiseman[Unknown User
(bitwiseman)] & https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~atong[Unknown User
(atong)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/Tp0Q1QAHP2k
* GSoC status update and travel grants budget request
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/zS1jzYRoF08

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-07-18-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-07-18-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Jul4thmeeting]]
== Jul 4th meeting

*Meeting has been cancelled.*

No agenda due to
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/jenkinsci-dev/oNzKUQcFik4/_6318kdAAAAJ[postponed
LTS schedule].

https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/s_N84I1OwK8/GfmYA61PAgAJ[Proposed
meeting cancellation].

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Jun20thmeeting]]
== Jun 20th meeting

WHEN: June 20th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/bmd6ooZZ7wI[Trademark
Sublicensing Request]:
https://www.code-conf.com/2018/day-of-jenkins-as-code/[Day of
Jenkins [as code]] (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~ewel[Unknown User
(ewel)] & Jasmine Crozier)
* GSoC status check
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Update: Jenkins & Java 10 Online
Hackathon (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)]) +
** Thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/FdCvQlscl_I

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-06-20-18.10.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-06-20-18.10.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-Jun6thmeeting]]
== Jun 6th meeting

WHEN: June 6th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ[Trademark
sublicensing request
"]https://groups.google.com/forum/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/dvnua3N32C0[CloudBees
Jenkins
Support]https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ["] (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~tmiranda[Unknown
User (tmiranda)])
* https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/edit/master/jep/5/README.adoc[Jenkins
Ambassador program update]
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~bitwiseman[Unknown User (bitwiseman)]
& https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~atong[Unknown User (atong)])
** Thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/12D2tWxO6mM
* GSoC status check
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
* Update: Jenkins & Java 10 Online
Hackathon (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/FdCvQlscl_I



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-06-06-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-06-06-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-May23rdmeeting]]
== May 23rd meeting

WHEN: May 23rd, 18:00 UTC

* LTS status check



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-05-23-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-05-23-18.02.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-May9thmeeting]]
== May 9th meeting

WHEN: May 9th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* LTS next baseline selection
* GSoC status check
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-05-09-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-05-09-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-April25thmeeting]]
== April 25th meeting

WHEN: April 25th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* JEP-200 status update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~jglick[Unknown
User (jglick)])
** Thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/AUdrTLmezgU
* GSoC status update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~deepchip[Unknown
User (deepchip)])
** Announcement:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/92wY9hBW1Vo

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-04-25-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-04-25-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-April11thmeeting]]
== April 11th meeting

WHEN: April 11th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* GSoC status check
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/d1rrCcY-VyM/Pu4RdH2LBwAJ[Trademark
sublicensing request "DevOps World - Jenkins
World"] (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~kohsuke[Unknown User
(kohsuke)])
* SPI financial request for review



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-04-11-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-04-11-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-March28thmeeting]]
== March 28th meeting

WHEN: March 28th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* JEP-200 update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown
User (oleg_nenashev)])
* GSoC update (https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown
User (oleg_nenashev)])



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-03-28-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-03-28-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-March14thmeeting]]
== March 14th meeting

WHEN: March 14th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* https://groups.google.com/d/msg/jenkinsci-dev/7m9bz6KkVv4/gd8qhk6cAQAJ[Trademark
sublicensing request "CloudBees Jenkins Metrics"]
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~kohsuke[Unknown User (kohsuke)])



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-03-14-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-03-14-18.00.log.html[raw]



[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-February28thmeeting]]
== February 28th meeting

WHEN: February 28th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-02-28-18.02.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-02-28-18.02.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-February14thmeeting]]
== February 14th meeting

WHEN: February 14th, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* LTS baseline selection
* Quick GSoC update
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])

MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-02-14-18.00.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-02-14-18.00.log.html[raw]

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-January31stmeeting]]
== January 31st meeting

WHEN: January 31st, 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check

*This meeting was skipped.*

[[GovernanceMeetingArchive2018-January17thmeeting]]
== January 17th meeting

WHEN: January 17th 18:00 UTC

* Recap last meeting's actions
* LTS status check
* JEP-200 status update / Q&A
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
** Thread: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/EALjDtS4riU
** https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Plugins+affected+by+fix+for+JEP-200[Plugins
affected by fix for JEP-200]
** Agenda: Answer any questions, agree on the out-of-order weekly
release if needed
* GSoC 2018: Discussion - Do we want to kick-it off?
(https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~oleg_nenashev[Unknown User
(oleg_nenashev)])
** https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/jenkinsci-dev/Gsoc%7Csort:date/jenkinsci-dev/We-14-z_YXU/NgmQbPeFCwAJ
** Current project
ideas: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q2p_XZEdbkcVDMpEPTtjPS15i2Oq3CQgH_geJjPhofY/edit
* Request for mark usage, "JUC Paris" by JFrog (Katrin Runser)
* FOSDEM planning update (Alyssa Tong)



MINUTES
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-01-17-18.01.html[summary]
and
http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2018/jenkins-meeting.2018-01-17-18.01.log.html[raw]
