content/sigs/docs/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: sig
title: "Documentation"
section: sigs
sigId: "docs"
logo: /images/logos/musketeer/musketeer.png
opengraph:
  image: /images/logos/musketeer/musketeer.png
tags:
  - docs
  - docs_sig
  - documentation
leads:
- "kmartens27"
- "markewaite"
participants:
- "gounthar"
- "krisstern"
- "vandit1604"
- "stackscribe"

links:
  gitter: "jenkins/docs:matrix.org"
  meetings: "https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit"
overview: >
  This special interest group improves Jenkins use and adoption through documentation.
  The SIG encourages, creates, and reviews documentation contributions and improves documentation with contributors and external communities.
---

[pass]
++++
<!-- Redirect anchor references with Javascript -->
<!-- This is ONLY for anchor references like installing/#windows. -->
<!-- Use redirects as described in the contributing guide for page level redirects. -->
<!-- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1305211/javascript-to-redirect-from-anchor-to-a-separate-page/21198129#21198129 -->
<script>
(function () {
    var anchorMap = {
        "ji-toolbar": "/sigs/docs/", /* Algolia search redirect to stay on same page */
        "jenkins-on-kubernetes": "/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/projects/document-jenkins-on-kubernetes/",
    }
    /*
    * Best practice for extracting hashes:
    * https://stackoverflow.com/a/10076097/151365
    */
    var hash = window.location.hash.substring(1);
    if (hash && anchorMap[hash] !== undefined) {
        /*
        * Best practice for javascript redirects:
        * https://stackoverflow.com/a/506004/151365
        */
        window.location.replace(anchorMap[hash]);
    }
})();
</script>
++++

The SIG offers a venue for all kinds of documentation creation, improvement, and delivery.

The group focuses on documentation for Jenkins including:

* link:/doc/[User documentation] - Using Jenkins
** link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials]
** link:/doc/book/[User Handbook]
** References such as link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/[Pipeline Syntax] and link:/doc/pipeline/steps/[Pipeline Steps].
** link:/participate/how-to-guides/[How-to Guides]
* link:/doc/developer/[Developer documentation] - Extending Jenkins
** link:/doc/developer/tutorial/[Tutorials]
** link:/doc/developer/book/[Developer Reference]
** link:/doc/developer/guides/[How-To Guides]
* link:/solutions[Solution documentation] - using Jenkins with specific technologies such as Java, PHP, or Docker.
This also includes implementation solutions like link:/solutions/pipeline[Pipeline].

The Documentation SIG also collaborates with other groups.
For example, we cooperate with the link:/sigs/platform[Platform SIG] on platform topics and the link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach[Advocacy and Outreach SIG] on community topics.

== Topics

* Reviewing link:/changelog/[weekly changelogs]
* Creating and reviewing link:/changelog-stable/[LTS changelogs] and link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[LTS upgrade guides]
* Creating new documentation
* Improving existing documentation
* Reviewing documentation contributions
* Coordinating documentation initiatives
* Reviewing Jenkins Enhancement Proposals (JEPs) related to documentation

== Contributing

Our link:/participate/document[Documentation participation page] has further information about contributing to Jenkins documentation.
It contains links for newcomers and seasoned contributors.
If you have any questions or ideas, please feel free to reach out to us using the channels listed on the right panel.

[[past-projects]]
== Past projects

This section lists some of the past projects completed under the direction of this SIG.
Refer to the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit?usp=sharing[SIG meeting notes] for more information about ongoing projects.

=== Google Season of Docs

Google Season of Docs brings together open source communities and technical writers for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of documentation, and of technical writing.
There are no current plans to participate in Google Season of Docs, but if you are curious, refer to our link:/sigs/docs/gsod[Google Season of Docs page] for past documentation project ideas and other information.

As of May 2025, the Google Season of Docs has program concluded.
This conclusion was originally announced in a link:https://groups.google.com/g/google-summer-of-code-mentors-list/c/t2LIAn1NCEQ/m/sfww4qe-EAAJ[Google Summer of Code user group], along with links to various resources from the program.
More information will be made available at a later time via the link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/[Google Open Source Blog].

=== Plugin documentation on GitHub

Previously, the SIG link:/doc/developer/publishing/wiki-page/#migrating-from-wiki-to-github[migrated plugin documentation from the Jenkins Wiki to GitHub].
Documentation in the plugin GitHub repository provides a good user experience for Jenkins users seeking documentation.
By performing this migration, plugin maintainers can now follow the documentation-as-code approach and make documentation changes a part of the pull requests.
It also creates an opportunity to review the documentation changes and add documentation contributor recognition, especially if the story is combined with link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/.github/release-drafter.adoc[changelog automation].

As of March 2024, we have more than 1,000 plugins which already use GitHub as a documentation source, but there are still link:https://reports.jenkins.io/jenkins-plugin-migration.html[hundreds of plugins to migrate].
We invite contributors to participate in the project and to help us with migrating the docs.
It is also a great opportunity to update and copy-edit the documentation.

Useful links:

* link:/blog/2019/10/21/plugin-docs-on-github/[Documentation migration guidelines blog post]
* jira:JENKINS-59467[Template issue for plugin documentation migration to GitHub]
* link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/VSdfVMDIW-A[Announcement in the developer mailing list]
* link:/doc/developer/publishing/documentation/#plugin-pages[Using GitHub as a source of plugin documentation]

=== Plugin site integration with GitHub

The link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Jenkins Plugin site] currently uses GitHub to get plugin documentation (see above) and tags (using GitHub topics).
Release information is also pulled from GitHub releases.
There are still some areas for improvement, such as parsing of CHANGELOG.md files to get release information for plugins that don't use GitHub releases.
This project was tracked in the jira:WEBSITE-637[] EPIC.

Useful links:

* link:/doc/developer/publishing/documentation/[Publishing plugin documentation]
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/plugin-site[Plugin site frontend]
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/update-center2[Jenkins Update Center] (serves plugin metadata)
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/plugin-site/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22[Newbie-friendly issues for the plugin site]

[[user-guide]]
=== User Guide Rework

Jenkins user topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook].
link:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nA8xVOkyKmZ8oTYSLdwjborT0w-BpBNNZT0nxR9deZ8/edit#gid=1087292709[Feedback requests] are frequently received to improve user documentation.
Common improvement themes include adding migration of the documentation from Wiki, pipeline examples with each of the pipeline steps, additional tutorials for new users, better searching, and navigation.

[[administrator-guide]]
=== Administrator Guide

Jenkins administration topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook].
Since these topics are already included, we are not separating the administration topics into a separate volume.
Upon reviewing other project documentation, very few, if any, have separate administrator guides.
Due to this, we are keeping the User Handbook as it is now, where administration topics are part of the overall documentation.

[[solution-pages]]
=== Solution Pages

Jenkins link:/solutions/[solution pages] highlight specific use cases for Jenkins users.
Those solutions include SCM provider solutions (link:/solutions/github[GitHub], link:/solutions/bitbucketserver[Bitbucket]), programming language solutions (link:/solutions/python[Python], link:/solutions/ruby[Ruby], link:/solutions/c[C/C++], link:/solutions/java[Java], and link:/solutions/php[PHP]), and execution environment solutions (link:/solutions/pipeline[Pipeline], link:/solutions/docker[Docker], link:/solutions/embedded[Embedded], and link:/solutions/android[Android]).
An excellent link:/solutions/[opening page] has been provided by link:https://github.com/zbynek[Zbynek Konecny].
Additional use cases and user stories are being collected by link:https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong].

The appearance and navigation of those solution pages has been improved since originally starting this project.
The existing pages have been revisited and improved so that users of specific solutions can find what they need on jenkins.io.
This project was tracked in the jira:WEBSITE-742[] EPIC.

== Documentation Reviews

* Reviewing Jenkins documentation link:https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=18640[bug reports]
* Identifying link:https://issues.jenkins.io/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20%22Jenkins%20Website%22%20and%20status%20!%3D%20done%20and%20labels%20%3D%20newbie-friendly%20ORDER%20BY%20%20%20type%20asc%2C%20status%2C%20updatedDate[newbie-friendly documentation bug reports]
* Reviewing Jenkins documentation link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pulls[pull requests]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugins site] improvements

== Office Hours

Documentation office hours are held once every two weeks on Thursday at *17:00 UTC*.
Office hours are conducted and recorded using Zoom and archived to the link:https://www.youtube.com/user/jenkinsci[Jenkins YouTube channel] in the link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaNp0lk5BmyAgqPS52u_4tC8[Jenkins Docs SIG YouTube playlist].
Participant links are posted in the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[SIG Gitter Chat] before the meeting starts.

== Meetings

The Documentation SIG meetings are part of the documentation office hours.
Meetings are conducted and recorded using Zoom and archived to the link:https://www.youtube.com/user/jenkinsci[Jenkins YouTube channel] in the link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaNp0lk5BmyAgqPS52u_4tC8[Jenkins Docs SIG YouTube playlist].
Participant links are posted in the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[SIG Gitter Chat] before the meeting starts.

=== Meeting Agendas

Meeting agendas and meeting notes for the SIG are posted in link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit[this Google Document].
Anyone is welcome to add a topic for an upcoming meeting by suggesting a change in the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit[agenda].

++++
<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo?embedded=true" width="100%" height="600px"></iframe>
++++

Commit message:

Update GSoD status and remove non-working links (#8139)
update GSoD status and remove non-working links

content/sigs/docs/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: sig
title: "Documentation"
section: sigs
sigId: "docs"
logo: /images/logos/musketeer/musketeer.png
opengraph:
  image: /images/logos/musketeer/musketeer.png
tags:
  - docs
  - docs_sig
  - documentation
leads:
- "kmartens27"
- "markewaite"
participants:
- "gounthar"
- "krisstern"
- "vandit1604"
- "stackscribe"

links:
  gitter: "jenkins/docs:matrix.org"
  meetings: "https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit"
overview: >
  This special interest group improves Jenkins use and adoption through documentation.
  The SIG encourages, creates, and reviews documentation contributions and improves documentation with contributors and external communities.
---

[pass]
++++
<!-- Redirect anchor references with Javascript -->
<!-- This is ONLY for anchor references like installing/#windows. -->
<!-- Use redirects as described in the contributing guide for page level redirects. -->
<!-- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1305211/javascript-to-redirect-from-anchor-to-a-separate-page/21198129#21198129 -->
<script>
(function () {
    var anchorMap = {
        "ji-toolbar": "/sigs/docs/", /* Algolia search redirect to stay on same page */
        "jenkins-on-kubernetes": "/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/projects/document-jenkins-on-kubernetes/",
    }
    /*
    * Best practice for extracting hashes:
    * https://stackoverflow.com/a/10076097/151365
    */
    var hash = window.location.hash.substring(1);
    if (hash && anchorMap[hash] !== undefined) {
        /*
        * Best practice for javascript redirects:
        * https://stackoverflow.com/a/506004/151365
        */
        window.location.replace(anchorMap[hash]);
    }
})();
</script>
++++

The SIG offers a venue for all kinds of documentation creation, improvement, and delivery.

The group focuses on documentation for Jenkins including:

* link:/doc/[User documentation] - Using Jenkins
** link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials]
** link:/doc/book/[User Handbook]
** References such as link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/[Pipeline Syntax] and link:/doc/pipeline/steps/[Pipeline Steps].
** link:/participate/how-to-guides/[How-to Guides]
* link:/doc/developer/[Developer documentation] - Extending Jenkins
** link:/doc/developer/tutorial/[Tutorials]
** link:/doc/developer/book/[Developer Reference]
** link:/doc/developer/guides/[How-To Guides]
* link:/solutions[Solution documentation] - using Jenkins with specific technologies such as Java, PHP, or Docker.
This also includes implementation solutions like link:/solutions/pipeline[Pipeline].

The Documentation SIG also collaborates with other groups.
For example, we cooperate with the link:/sigs/platform[Platform SIG] on platform topics and the link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach[Advocacy and Outreach SIG] on community topics.

== Topics

* Reviewing link:/changelog/[weekly changelogs]
* Creating and reviewing link:/changelog-stable/[LTS changelogs] and link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[LTS upgrade guides]
* Creating new documentation
* Improving existing documentation
* Reviewing documentation contributions
* Coordinating documentation initiatives
* Reviewing Jenkins Enhancement Proposals (JEPs) related to documentation

== Contributing

Our link:/participate/document[Documentation participation page] has further information about contributing to Jenkins documentation.
It contains links for newcomers and seasoned contributors.
If you have any questions or ideas, please feel free to reach out to us using the channels listed on the right panel.

[[past-projects]]
== Past projects

This section lists some of the past projects completed under the direction of this SIG.
Refer to the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit?usp=sharing[SIG meeting notes] for more information about ongoing projects.

=== Google Season of Docs

Google Season of Docs brings together open source communities and technical writers for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of documentation, and of technical writing.
There are no current plans to participate in Google Season of Docs, but if you are curious, refer to our link:/sigs/docs/gsod[Google Season of Docs page] for past documentation project ideas and other information.

As of May 2025, the Google Season of Docs has program concluded.
This conclusion was originally announced in a Google Summer of Code user group and is currently displayed on the main link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs[GSoD page].
More information will be made available at a later time via the link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/[Google Open Source Blog].

=== Plugin documentation on GitHub

Previously, the SIG link:/doc/developer/publishing/wiki-page/#migrating-from-wiki-to-github[migrated plugin documentation from the Jenkins Wiki to GitHub].
Documentation in the plugin GitHub repository provides a good user experience for Jenkins users seeking documentation.
By performing this migration, plugin maintainers can now follow the documentation-as-code approach and make documentation changes a part of the pull requests.
It also creates an opportunity to review the documentation changes and add documentation contributor recognition, especially if the story is combined with link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/.github/release-drafter.adoc[changelog automation].

As of March 2024, we have more than 1,000 plugins which already use GitHub as a documentation source, but there are still link:https://reports.jenkins.io/jenkins-plugin-migration.html[hundreds of plugins to migrate].
We invite contributors to participate in the project and to help us with migrating the docs.
It is also a great opportunity to update and copy-edit the documentation.

Useful links:

* link:/blog/2019/10/21/plugin-docs-on-github/[Documentation migration guidelines blog post]
* jira:JENKINS-59467[Template issue for plugin documentation migration to GitHub]
* link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jenkinsci-dev/VSdfVMDIW-A[Announcement in the developer mailing list]
* link:/doc/developer/publishing/documentation/#plugin-pages[Using GitHub as a source of plugin documentation]

=== Plugin site integration with GitHub

The link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Jenkins Plugin site] currently uses GitHub to get plugin documentation (see above) and tags (using GitHub topics).
Release information is also pulled from GitHub releases.
There are still some areas for improvement, such as parsing of CHANGELOG.md files to get release information for plugins that don't use GitHub releases.
This project was tracked in the jira:WEBSITE-637[] EPIC.

Useful links:

* link:/doc/developer/publishing/documentation/[Publishing plugin documentation]
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/plugin-site[Plugin site frontend]
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/update-center2[Jenkins Update Center] (serves plugin metadata)
* link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/plugin-site/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22[Newbie-friendly issues for the plugin site]

[[user-guide]]
=== User Guide Rework

Jenkins user topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook].
link:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nA8xVOkyKmZ8oTYSLdwjborT0w-BpBNNZT0nxR9deZ8/edit#gid=1087292709[Feedback requests] are frequently received to improve user documentation.
Common improvement themes include adding migration of the documentation from Wiki, pipeline examples with each of the pipeline steps, additional tutorials for new users, better searching, and navigation.

[[administrator-guide]]
=== Administrator Guide

Jenkins administration topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook].
Since these topics are already included, we are not separating the administration topics into a separate volume.
Upon reviewing other project documentation, very few, if any, have separate administrator guides.
Due to this, we are keeping the User Handbook as it is now, where administration topics are part of the overall documentation.

[[solution-pages]]
=== Solution Pages

Jenkins link:/solutions/[solution pages] highlight specific use cases for Jenkins users.
Those solutions include SCM provider solutions (link:/solutions/github[GitHub], link:/solutions/bitbucketserver[Bitbucket]), programming language solutions (link:/solutions/python[Python], link:/solutions/ruby[Ruby], link:/solutions/c[C/C++], link:/solutions/java[Java], and link:/solutions/php[PHP]), and execution environment solutions (link:/solutions/pipeline[Pipeline], link:/solutions/docker[Docker], link:/solutions/embedded[Embedded], and link:/solutions/android[Android]).
An excellent link:/solutions/[opening page] has been provided by link:https://github.com/zbynek[Zbynek Konecny].
Additional use cases and user stories are being collected by link:https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong].

The appearance and navigation of those solution pages has been improved since originally starting this project.
The existing pages have been revisited and improved so that users of specific solutions can find what they need on jenkins.io.
This project was tracked in the jira:WEBSITE-742[] EPIC.

== Documentation Reviews

* Reviewing Jenkins documentation link:https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=18640[bug reports]
* Identifying link:https://issues.jenkins.io/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20%22Jenkins%20Website%22%20and%20status%20!%3D%20done%20and%20labels%20%3D%20newbie-friendly%20ORDER%20BY%20%20%20type%20asc%2C%20status%2C%20updatedDate[newbie-friendly documentation bug reports]
* Reviewing Jenkins documentation link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pulls[pull requests]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugins site] improvements

== Office Hours

Documentation office hours are held once every two weeks on Thursday at *17:00 UTC*.
Office hours are conducted and recorded using Zoom and archived to the link:https://www.youtube.com/user/jenkinsci[Jenkins YouTube channel] in the link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaNp0lk5BmyAgqPS52u_4tC8[Jenkins Docs SIG YouTube playlist].
Participant links are posted in the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[SIG Gitter Chat] before the meeting starts.

== Meetings

The Documentation SIG meetings are part of the documentation office hours.
Meetings are conducted and recorded using Zoom and archived to the link:https://www.youtube.com/user/jenkinsci[Jenkins YouTube channel] in the link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLN7ajX_VdyaNp0lk5BmyAgqPS52u_4tC8[Jenkins Docs SIG YouTube playlist].
Participant links are posted in the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[SIG Gitter Chat] before the meeting starts.

=== Meeting Agendas

Meeting agendas and meeting notes for the SIG are posted in link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit[this Google Document].
Anyone is welcome to add a topic for an upcoming meeting by suggesting a change in the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo/edit[agenda].

++++
<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ygRZnVtoIvuEKpwNeF_oVRVCV5NKcZD1_HMtWlUZguo?embedded=true" width="100%" height="600px"></iframe>
++++
