---
:layout: post
:title: First Governance Meeting Recap
:nodeid: 280
:created: 1296918000
:tags:
  - general
  - core
:author: rtyler
---
As mentioned link:/content/governance-meeting-today[on Friday] the Jenkins project held it's first meeting on the link:/content/chat[IRC channel] at the request of the interim board. In the interest of transparency, we recorded meeting minutes and tried to involve as many folks as possible.

==== Topics Covered

* *Proposal/Discussion of Jenkins project governance structure*
* *What to do about the logo*
* *Registering the Jenkins trademark*
* *Moving Jenkins under an umbrella organization*
* *What shall we do with a new CLA?*
* *Logistics for the next project meeting*

If you're interested, you can read through the http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-02-04-23.02.log.html[full logs] or just look over the high-level http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/2011/jenkins.2011-02-04-23.02.html[meeting minutes].

This first meeting went a bit long due to the massive amount of items needing to be discussed, so the project has scheduled another meeting for *Wednesday Feb 9, 11am PST (19:00 UTC)*; mark your calendars!

Thanks to everybody who participated, we'll see you again next time.
