content/participate/connect.adoc, before:

---
layout: project
title: "Get connected with the Jenkins community!"
section: participate
tags:
  - community
  - events
opengraph:
  image: /images/participate/follow-opengraph.png
description: >
  This section describes how to get connected
  including subscribing to social media, joining communication channels and events.
---

There are many ways to connect to the Jenkins community!

=== Follow us on social media

We do our best to spread the word about Jenkins in social media.
It helps us to communicate the Jenkins vision, highlight achievements, and attract new contributors.
Follow us and share the posts with your network!

* **Twitter:** link:https://twitter.com/jenkinsci[@jenkinsci], 
  link:https://twitter.com/jenkins_release[@jenkins_release],
  and other local and language group community channels.
* **LinkedIn:** link:https://www.linkedin.com/company/jenkins-project[Jenkins Project]
* **YouTube:** link:https://www.youtube.com/c/jenkinscicd[Official Jenkins channel]
* **Discourse:** link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io]
* **Reddit:** link:https://www.reddit.com/r/jenkinsci/[/r/jenkinsci]

Want to help with managing our social media?
Join the link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach/#social-media[Advocacy and Outreach SIG] that coordinates the effort!

=== Join our chats and forums

There are many communication channels in the Jenkins community and its entities.
You are welcome to join these channels and participate in discussions.
Here are the key ones:

* link:/mailing-lists[Mailing lists] - We use mailing lists for async communications and link:/project/governance[open governance].
* link:/chat[Chat: Gitter, IRC, Slack, etc.] - Realtime and async communications in the community.
* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] - our new community forum on Discourse.
  Jenkins end users, developers and contributors are welcome!

Note that language groups and local communities might be using separate channels.
See link:https://community.jenkins.io/c/language-groups/14[Language Groups on Discourse] for some references.

=== Join our events!

You can also join our events and link:../meet[meet Jenkins users and contributors!].

Commit message:

fix: some important links (#8116)
* fix: some important links

* Update content/participate/connect.adoc

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update index.adoc

---------

Co-authored-by: Kris Stern <krisstern@outlook.com>
Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

content/participate/connect.adoc, after:

---
layout: project
title: "Get connected with the Jenkins community!"
section: participate
tags:
  - community
  - events
opengraph:
  image: /images/participate/follow-opengraph.png
description: >
  This section describes how to get connected
  including subscribing to social media, joining communication channels and events.
---

There are many ways to connect to the Jenkins community!

=== Follow us on social media

We do our best to spread the word about Jenkins in social media.
It helps us to communicate the Jenkins vision, highlight achievements, and attract new contributors.
Follow us and share the posts with your network!

* **Twitter:** link:https://twitter.com/jenkinsci[@jenkinsci], 
  link:https://twitter.com/jenkins_release[@jenkins_release],
  and other local and language group community channels.
* **LinkedIn:** link:https://www.linkedin.com/company/jenkins-project[Jenkins Project]
* **YouTube:** link:https://www.youtube.com/c/jenkinscicd[Official Jenkins channel]
* **Discourse:** link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io]
* **Reddit:** link:https://www.reddit.com/r/jenkinsci/[/r/jenkinsci]

Want to help with managing our social media?
Join the link:/sigs/advocacy-and-outreach/#social-media[Advocacy and Outreach SIG] that coordinates the effort!

=== Join our chats and forums

There are many communication channels in the Jenkins community and its entities.
You are welcome to join these channels and participate in discussions.
Here are the key ones:

* link:/mailing-lists[Mailing lists] - We use mailing lists for async communications and link:/project/governance[open governance].
* link:/chat[Chat: Gitter, IRC, Slack, etc.] - Realtime and async communications in the community.
* link:https://community.jenkins.io/[community.jenkins.io] - our new community forum on Discourse.
  Jenkins end users, developers and contributors are welcome!

Refer to link:https://community.jenkins.io/t/all-communication-channels-that-we-are-aware-of/79[the list of communication channels that Jenkins has] for further information.

=== Join our events!

You can also join our events and link:../meet[meet Jenkins users and contributors!].
