content/participate/report-issue.adoc, before:

---
layout: project
title: Issue Reporting
section: participate
tags:
  - developer
  - testing
  - contributing
---

== How-To Report an Issue

Jenkins JIRA is an issue tracker, not a support site.
If you need assistance or have general questions, visit us link:/chat/[in chat], email one of the link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists], or post on the https://community.jenkins.io/[community forum].

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforecreatinganissue]]
== Before creating an issue

First, *identify the location of the issue*.
Are you reporting an issue in Jenkins itself or one of its plugins? 
We document all the issues in Jenkins on link:https://issues.jenkins.io/[JIRA] and plugin issues are on Github.
If you are reporting an issue with the jenkins.io site, please create an issue in our link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/issues[GitHub issue tracker].

After that, determine what kind of issue it is. There are three main types:
whose use is explained on this page:

* *Bug*: Something does not work as intended.
* *Improvement*: Either a current functionality should be improved or new 
functionality should be added.
* *Vulnerabilities*: link:/security/reporting/[Security related issues in Jenkins]

Other types (_Patch_, _Task_) are not used in JIRA.
Neither will be explained here.
If you want to propose a patch, create an issue using one of the 3 types above, and then create a pull request on GitHub link:https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request[as explained here].
Report issues with infrastructure services hosted by the Jenkins project (jenkins.io, accounts.jenkins.io, etc.) at link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/[the dedicated help desk].

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforereportingabug]]
=== Before reporting a bug

* First, *search for the error message or general problem description*.
This can help you find solutions if it's actually e.g. a configuration
problem, or point you to earlier reports in case you're not the first
one experiencing this problem. You can
http://issues.jenkins.io/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa[use the search
in the issue tracker], or use web search.
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search. Any results will often point you to earlier issue
reports if it's really a bug. You can then _watch them_ and _vote for
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search.
Any results will often point you to earlier issue reports if it's really a bug.
You can then _watch them_ and _vote for them_ in JIRA, or subscribe to notifications in Github Issues.
Voting helps us determine the impact of bugs and prioritize them.
If you have doubts that the problem you're experiencing is the exact same one as you found, and prefer to file a new issue, be sure to mention the one(s) you found in the description.
issue (and mention the one(s) you found in the description)._
* *Make sure that the problem actually is with Jenkins*. If your build
seems to fail for no reason, try to build your project outside Jenkins,
but in the same general environment (e.g. same machine, same user
account, ...). If Jenkins interacts with other systems, make sure that
they're working. If the connections between Jenkins controller and agents
fail, make sure the network is reliable.
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component.
For Jenkins itself, review the link:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[LTS upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog].
If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, review the changelog for the specific plugin on the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[plugins site].  The plugin documentation can also be reached
directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins_ » _Plugins_ » _Installed_.
If you're still unable to resolve the problem and cannot find existing
issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the
If you're still unable to resolve the problem, and cannot find existing issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the plugins, file a *bug*.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforerequestinganimprovementorfeature]]
=== Before requesting an improvement or feature

* *Check newer versions of Jenkins or the plugin* for this feature.
They may have the feature already!
* *Search JIRA or Github Issues for existing requests* for this feature.
You can then _watch and vote for them_.
Voting helps us determine the demand for requests and prioritize them, so it's in your interest to actually find these rather than creating a duplicate.

If you cannot find anything, file an *improvement* or *new feature* request in the issue tracker for the specific plugin.
Open the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[page] for the plugin and select the "Report an issue" link in the *Links* section on the right side of the plugin page.

Searching for existing issues makes it easier
for us to deal with issue reports and shows which
issues are considered important by the community by the number of voters
and watchers.  It increases the likelihood of related changes.
It's not that obvious when an issue has been reported separately several
times with only a few watchers each.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Creatingtheissue]]
== Creating the issue
If you are reporting an issue in Jenkins, then you'll have to report it on link:https://issues.jenkins.io/[JIRA].
However *if the issue you're reporting is in one of Jenkins' plugins*, you'll have to follow these steps:

* Open the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugin Site].
* Search for the Plugin and open its page.
* Click the *Report an issue* link in the *Links* section on the right side of the
plugin page.
** After selecting the link, if you end up on JIRA follow the instructions on link:/participate/report-issue/#reporting-issue-on-jira[Reporting an Issue in JIRA].
** After selecting the link, if you end up on Github follow the instructions on link:/participate/report-issue/#reporting-issue-on-github[Reporting an Issue on Github].


=== Reporting an issue on JIRA
You need to https://accounts.jenkins.io/[register an account] if you
haven't already. Then, just select *Create Issue* on
https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa[the JIRA home page].

* For *Project* select:
** _Jenkins_ for general issues with Jenkins,
** _Security Issues_ if you want to report a security issue privately
* For _Infrastructure_, if you're reporting a bug with link:/projects/infrastructure/[a Jenkins service run by the Jenkins project], open an issue in the https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/new/choose[dedicated helpdesk on Github].
* Enter a short but meaningful description of your problem as *Summary*.
* For *Priority*, see
https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/ShowConstantsHelp.jspa?decorator=popup#PriorityLevels[here]
for descriptions of the levels. *This is not how urgently* *_you_* *want
it fixed*. Try to be realistic: Most bugs should be Minor or Major
priority. If you found a workaround, reduce the priority, even if it's a
severe problem otherwise.
* Leave the *Assignee* field to automatic.

=== Reporting an issue on GitHub 
You need to have a Github account. 
link:https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/onboarding/getting-started-with-your-github-account[Register an account] if you haven't already.

* If you are redirected to the Github issue tracker from the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugin Site], you will see something like this:
+
[.boxshadow]
image:/images/participate/github-issues.png[alt="Github Issue Page",width=80%]

* Select *Get started* next to the type of issue you'd like to open.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:/images/participate/get-started.png[alt="Get Started Button",width=40%,align="center"]

* After that, fill in the details of the issue according to the Github issue template provided for each type of issue.
* Don't forget to subscribe to the issue so you'll get notifications regarding any updates on the issue.
[[Howtoreportanissue-WhatinformationtoprovideforEnvironmentandDescription]]

=== What information to provide for Environment and Description


Much of the advice on
http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#intro[How To Ask Questions
The Smart Way] also helps you write great issue reports.

*Environment* is mostly relevant for bug reports: What is the
configuration experiencing the issue? Depending on the type of problem,
the following are often relevant:

* *Operating System* (including version, and whether it's 32/64 bit) of
all systems involved (your client's, the Jenkins server's, all agent
nodes'),
* All relevant *JRE/JDK vendors and versions* (e.g. Oracle JRE, OpenJDK,
...) and the parameters set.
* *Jenkins and plugin versions*, use the below snippet in **Jenkins > Manage Jenkins > Script Console**:

[source,groovy]
----
println("Jenkins: ${Jenkins.instance.getVersion()}")
println("OS: ${System.getProperty('os.name')} - ${System.getProperty('os.version')}")
println("Java: ${System.getProperty('java.version')} - ${System.getProperty('java.vm.vendor')} (${System.getProperty('java.vm.name')})")
println "---"

Jenkins.instance.pluginManager.plugins
    .collect()
    .sort { it.getShortName() }
    .each {
        plugin -> println("${plugin.getShortName()}:${plugin.getVersion()}")
    }
return
----

* Whether you're *running Jenkins directly or in a container* like
Tomcat (which one, in which version?)
* Whether Jenkins is accessed through a *reverse proxy* (if so, how is
it configured?)
* *How you installed Jenkins* (Windows installer, deb/rpm, ...), and
*how you're launching any involved agents* (via SSH, web browser,
command line, ...)
* *Your web browser* (+ version). Make sure the issue occurs on
link:/doc/administration/requirements/web-browsers/[supported
web browsers].

If this is too much information for the Environment field, just put some
of it into the description.

Every Jenkins installation has the `+/systemInfo+` URL with information
about Jenkins. If you're not sure what information to provide, copying
everything on that page is a good place to start. Another option would
be to install the
link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/support-core/[Support Core
Plugin], which allows downloading zip files from Jenkins that contain
information relevant for investigating bug reports.

'''''

The *Description* should be comprehensive to allow others to understand
the problem or improvement request immediately. A few suggestions on
what to include (again, mostly applicable to bug reports):

* Did the issue *occur after an upgrade* of Jenkins or any plugins? If
so, what was/were the previous version(s), what is/are the current
version(s)? Does downgrading resolve the issue? For plugins, the
previous versions can often be seen in Plugin Manager (where it offers
to downgrade to the previous version).
* Include *log output and stack traces* of error messages from the UI or
any client programs.
* Provide a *complete step-by-step description of how to reproduce the
problem*. We cannot see your screen, so be comprehensive. Consider
switching the Jenkins UI to English by changing your web browser's
configuration to get the labels right.
* If possible, provide information on the *circumstances* the issue
occurs with (or doesn't), e.g. "only when starting the agent via SSH",
"only when using Tomcat as container", etc. – this may be some work, but
it'll make reproducing and fixing the issue much easier!
* Does the issue occur with a new Jenkins installation not reusing any
old configuration or data? *Try to reproduce the problem with a pristine
Jenkins installation* with as little customization as possible.
* If the problem occurs in *interaction with other systems* (e.g. SCM),
include their version and other relevant configuration.
* If the Jenkins UI no longer responds, *get a thread dump* using e.g.
(on Linux) `+kill -3 <Jenkins PID>+` or `+jstack -l <Jenkins PID>+`.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Aftercreatingtheissue]]
== After creating the issue

Once you've created an issue, make sure to *respond to requests for
additional information* in a timely manner, otherwise your issue may be
resolved as Incomplete.

If you reported a regression in Jenkins (i.e. a bug that appeared after
updating Jenkins itself), consider
link:/changelog[leaving *community feedback* on the
changelog] to let others know about it.

*Keep the issue updated*. This includes, for example:

* If you find additional information that may be relevant to the issue,
add it to the issue description or write a comment.
* If it turns out that the bug you reported was actually something else,
resolve it. (If you only found a workaround, don't resolve it yet.)
* If newer Jenkins versions no longer are affected by the issue, or
implemented the feature you requested, make sure to mark your issue as
Fixed. This can happen e.g. if there were other reports on the issue, or
developers noticed it on their own.

Commit message:

Mention Jira x GitHub distinction in issue reporting

content/participate/report-issue.adoc, after:

---
layout: project
title: Issue Reporting
section: participate
tags:
  - developer
  - testing
  - contributing
---

== How-To Report an Issue

Jenkins JIRA is an issue tracker, not a support site.
If you need assistance or have general questions, visit us link:/chat/[in chat], email one of the link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists], or post on the https://community.jenkins.io/[community forum].

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforecreatinganissue]]
== Before creating an issue

First, *identify the location of the issue*.
Are you reporting an issue in Jenkins itself or one of its plugins? 
We document all the issues in Jenkins on link:https://issues.jenkins.io/[JIRA].
Plugins may use JIRA or Github for issue tracking, see <<Howtoreportanissue-Creatingtheissue,Creating the Issue>> for details.
If you are reporting an issue with the jenkins.io site, please create an issue in our link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/issues[GitHub issue tracker].

After that, determine what kind of issue it is. There are three main types:
whose use is explained on this page:

* *Bug*: Something does not work as intended.
* *Improvement*: Either a current functionality should be improved or new 
functionality should be added.
* *Vulnerabilities*: link:/security/reporting/[Security related issues in Jenkins]

Other types (_Patch_, _Task_) are not used in JIRA.
Neither will be explained here.
If you want to propose a patch, create an issue using one of the 3 types above, and then create a pull request on GitHub link:https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request[as explained here].
Report issues with infrastructure services hosted by the Jenkins project (jenkins.io, accounts.jenkins.io, etc.) at link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/[the dedicated help desk].

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforereportingabug]]
=== Before reporting a bug

* First, *search for the error message or general problem description*.
This can help you find solutions if it's actually e.g. a configuration
problem, or point you to earlier reports in case you're not the first
one experiencing this problem. You can
http://issues.jenkins.io/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa[use the search
in the issue tracker], or use web search.
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search. Any results will often point you to earlier issue
reports if it's really a bug. You can then _watch them_ and _vote for
https://stackoverflow.com/tags/jenkins[Stack Overflow] may also be a
good place to search.
Any results will often point you to earlier issue reports if it's really a bug.
You can then _watch them_ and _vote for them_ in JIRA, or subscribe to notifications in Github Issues.
Voting helps us determine the impact of bugs and prioritize them.
If you have doubts that the problem you're experiencing is the exact same one as you found, and prefer to file a new issue, be sure to mention the one(s) you found in the description.
issue (and mention the one(s) you found in the description)._
* *Make sure that the problem actually is with Jenkins*. If your build
seems to fail for no reason, try to build your project outside Jenkins,
but in the same general environment (e.g. same machine, same user
account, ...). If Jenkins interacts with other systems, make sure that
they're working. If the connections between Jenkins controller and agents
fail, make sure the network is reliable.
* *Check the changelogs* to see whether the issue has been fixed in
newer versions of the affected component.
For Jenkins itself, review the link:/changelog-stable/[long term support changelog], the link:/doc/upgrade-guide/[LTS upgrade guide], and the link:/changelog/[weekly changelog].
If you believe the problem to be in a plugin, review the changelog for the specific plugin on the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[plugins site].  The plugin documentation can also be reached
directly by clicking the plugin name in _Manage Jenkins_ » _Plugins_ » _Installed_.
If you're still unable to resolve the problem and cannot find existing
issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the
If you're still unable to resolve the problem, and cannot find existing issue reports or related fixes in newer versions of Jenkins or the plugins, file a *bug*.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Beforerequestinganimprovementorfeature]]
=== Before requesting an improvement or feature

* *Check newer versions of Jenkins or the plugin* for this feature.
They may have the feature already!
* *Search JIRA or Github Issues for existing requests* for this feature.
You can then _watch and vote for them_.
Voting helps us determine the demand for requests and prioritize them, so it's in your interest to actually find these rather than creating a duplicate.

If you cannot find anything, file an *improvement* or *new feature* request in the issue tracker for the specific plugin.
Open the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[page] for the plugin and select the "Report an issue" link in the *Links* section on the right side of the plugin page.

Searching for existing issues makes it easier
for us to deal with issue reports and shows which
issues are considered important by the community by the number of voters
and watchers.  It increases the likelihood of related changes.
It's not that obvious when an issue has been reported separately several
times with only a few watchers each.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Creatingtheissue]]
== Creating the issue
If you are reporting an issue in Jenkins, then you'll have to report it on link:https://issues.jenkins.io/[JIRA].
However *if the issue you're reporting is in one of Jenkins' plugins*, you'll have to follow these steps:

* Open the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugin Site].
* Search for the Plugin and open its page.
* Click the *Report an issue* link in the *Links* section on the right side of the
plugin page.
** After selecting the link, if you end up on JIRA follow the instructions on link:/participate/report-issue/#reporting-issue-on-jira[Reporting an Issue in JIRA].
** After selecting the link, if you end up on Github follow the instructions on link:/participate/report-issue/#reporting-issue-on-github[Reporting an Issue on Github].


=== Reporting an issue on JIRA
You need to https://accounts.jenkins.io/[register an account] if you
haven't already. Then, just select *Create Issue* on
https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa[the JIRA home page].

* For *Project* select:
** _Jenkins_ for general issues with Jenkins,
** _Security Issues_ if you want to report a security issue privately
* For _Infrastructure_, if you're reporting a bug with link:/projects/infrastructure/[a Jenkins service run by the Jenkins project], open an issue in the https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/new/choose[dedicated helpdesk on Github].
* Enter a short but meaningful description of your problem as *Summary*.
* For *Priority*, see
https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/ShowConstantsHelp.jspa?decorator=popup#PriorityLevels[here]
for descriptions of the levels. *This is not how urgently* *_you_* *want
it fixed*. Try to be realistic: Most bugs should be Minor or Major
priority. If you found a workaround, reduce the priority, even if it's a
severe problem otherwise.
* Leave the *Assignee* field to automatic.

=== Reporting an issue on GitHub 
You need to have a Github account. 
link:https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/onboarding/getting-started-with-your-github-account[Register an account] if you haven't already.

* If you are redirected to the Github issue tracker from the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/[Plugin Site], you will see something like this:
+
[.boxshadow]
image:/images/participate/github-issues.png[alt="Github Issue Page",width=80%]

* Select *Get started* next to the type of issue you'd like to open.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:/images/participate/get-started.png[alt="Get Started Button",width=40%,align="center"]

* After that, fill in the details of the issue according to the Github issue template provided for each type of issue.
* Don't forget to subscribe to the issue so you'll get notifications regarding any updates on the issue.
[[Howtoreportanissue-WhatinformationtoprovideforEnvironmentandDescription]]

=== What information to provide for Environment and Description


Much of the advice on
http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#intro[How To Ask Questions
The Smart Way] also helps you write great issue reports.

*Environment* is mostly relevant for bug reports: What is the
configuration experiencing the issue? Depending on the type of problem,
the following are often relevant:

* *Operating System* (including version, and whether it's 32/64 bit) of
all systems involved (your client's, the Jenkins server's, all agent
nodes'),
* All relevant *JRE/JDK vendors and versions* (e.g. Oracle JRE, OpenJDK,
...) and the parameters set.
* *Jenkins and plugin versions*, use the below snippet in **Jenkins > Manage Jenkins > Script Console**:

[source,groovy]
----
println("Jenkins: ${Jenkins.instance.getVersion()}")
println("OS: ${System.getProperty('os.name')} - ${System.getProperty('os.version')}")
println("Java: ${System.getProperty('java.version')} - ${System.getProperty('java.vm.vendor')} (${System.getProperty('java.vm.name')})")
println "---"

Jenkins.instance.pluginManager.plugins
    .collect()
    .sort { it.getShortName() }
    .each {
        plugin -> println("${plugin.getShortName()}:${plugin.getVersion()}")
    }
return
----

* Whether you're *running Jenkins directly or in a container* like
Tomcat (which one, in which version?)
* Whether Jenkins is accessed through a *reverse proxy* (if so, how is
it configured?)
* *How you installed Jenkins* (Windows installer, deb/rpm, ...), and
*how you're launching any involved agents* (via SSH, web browser,
command line, ...)
* *Your web browser* (+ version). Make sure the issue occurs on
link:/doc/administration/requirements/web-browsers/[supported
web browsers].

If this is too much information for the Environment field, just put some
of it into the description.

Every Jenkins installation has the `+/systemInfo+` URL with information
about Jenkins. If you're not sure what information to provide, copying
everything on that page is a good place to start. Another option would
be to install the
link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/support-core/[Support Core
Plugin], which allows downloading zip files from Jenkins that contain
information relevant for investigating bug reports.

'''''

The *Description* should be comprehensive to allow others to understand
the problem or improvement request immediately. A few suggestions on
what to include (again, mostly applicable to bug reports):

* Did the issue *occur after an upgrade* of Jenkins or any plugins? If
so, what was/were the previous version(s), what is/are the current
version(s)? Does downgrading resolve the issue? For plugins, the
previous versions can often be seen in Plugin Manager (where it offers
to downgrade to the previous version).
* Include *log output and stack traces* of error messages from the UI or
any client programs.
* Provide a *complete step-by-step description of how to reproduce the
problem*. We cannot see your screen, so be comprehensive. Consider
switching the Jenkins UI to English by changing your web browser's
configuration to get the labels right.
* If possible, provide information on the *circumstances* the issue
occurs with (or doesn't), e.g. "only when starting the agent via SSH",
"only when using Tomcat as container", etc. – this may be some work, but
it'll make reproducing and fixing the issue much easier!
* Does the issue occur with a new Jenkins installation not reusing any
old configuration or data? *Try to reproduce the problem with a pristine
Jenkins installation* with as little customization as possible.
* If the problem occurs in *interaction with other systems* (e.g. SCM),
include their version and other relevant configuration.
* If the Jenkins UI no longer responds, *get a thread dump* using e.g.
(on Linux) `+kill -3 <Jenkins PID>+` or `+jstack -l <Jenkins PID>+`.

[[Howtoreportanissue-Aftercreatingtheissue]]
== After creating the issue

Once you've created an issue, make sure to *respond to requests for
additional information* in a timely manner, otherwise your issue may be
resolved as Incomplete.

If you reported a regression in Jenkins (i.e. a bug that appeared after
updating Jenkins itself), consider
link:/changelog[leaving *community feedback* on the
changelog] to let others know about it.

*Keep the issue updated*. This includes, for example:

* If you find additional information that may be relevant to the issue,
add it to the issue description or write a comment.
* If it turns out that the bug you reported was actually something else,
resolve it. (If you only found a workaround, don't resolve it yet.)
* If newer Jenkins versions no longer are affected by the issue, or
implemented the feature you requested, make sure to mark your issue as
Fixed. This can happen e.g. if there were other reports on the issue, or
developers noticed it on their own.
