---
layout: post
title: "Scaling out iOS builds on AWS with EC2 mac"
tags:
- community
- contribute
- aws
- aws-ec2-mac
- mac
- iOS
- baremetal
- type-2-virtualization
authors:
- xparticle
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/Jenkins-DevOps.png
---

image::/images/post-images/Jenkins-DevOps.png[role=right]

== Scaling out iOS builds on AWS with EC2 mac

=== Introduction

The number of mobile application subscriptions are
[.underline]#increasing# annually, trending towards 8 billion and
combined number of apps in the app stores are close to [.underline]#6
million#. Mobile application development has become prevalent, not just
for consumer facing businesses but also with the remote workforce. Many
large enterprises also support an internal app store catering to
organization specific functionalities. As a result of this growth
combined with the cloud first approach, there is a need to deploy mobile
application development infrastructure with scale in mind from day 1.

Let’s start by looking at a skeleton view of typical iOS continuous
integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines. For the purpose
of this blog, we can split it into two distinct phases, (1) Local
Integrated Development Environment (IDE) based design and development of
the iOS app which typically takes place on a macOS device, and
(2) Building, testing, and publishing the app to the Appstore. This can
occur on the same macOS device if it is with a a single developer
project, however team based development, typically runs on separate
build and test infrastructure. Although some aspects of this discussion
can be applied to stand up a fleet of developer machines for phase 1,
the focus will be placed on the topic at hand which is scalable build
pipelines for the second phase.

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image1.png[image,width=622,height=194]

Figure-1: iOS Application development steps

Amazon EC2 Mac instances allow customers to bootstrap macOS environments
in the cloud and use these for building, testing, signing, and
publishing iOS applications with the security, scalability, and
flexibility of the cloud. EC2 Mac instances are offered as bare-metal
instances running on top of single-tenant, Dedicated Hosts in compliance
with macOS licensing.

Integration with services like AWS Auto Scaling and AWS Systems Manager
with the SSM agent included in the Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), means
that the fundamental building blocks to facilitate automation needed for
setting up a CI/CD pipeline for iOS app builds is readily available. The
AWS Partner Network (APN) is a global community of partners that
leverages programs, expertise, and resources to build, market, and sell
customer offerings. AWS Marketplace is built to accelerate innovation
available via the cloud while balancing the needs for speed and agility
with governance and control. Both software delivery automation products
like CI from CloudBees and virtualization solution like Anka from Veertu
are offered on AWS Marketplace. These products work with the fundamental
building blocks to further remove the undifferentiated heavy lifting of
scaling out the iOS app build workloads. Let’s look at the options to
scale out build pipelines with EC2 Mac instances.

=== Queuing builds using SQS and AWS Systems Manager

EC2 Mac instances based AMIs have a Systems Manager agent included. This
enables EC2 Mac instances to become a managed node under the Systems
Manager inventory. We can then use “Run Command”, a capability of AWS
Systems Manager, to remotely and securely run automation scripts on EC2
Mac instances. In this case, we will use Run Command to execute our
build scripts. Configuring the event source trigger for Run Command
could be achieved by a simple well-known pattern utilizing CodeCommit,
SNS topic, SQS queue and Lambda worker as depicted below.

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image2.png[image,width=625,height=272]

Figure-2: Multiple Build Jobs invoked by SSM Agent on EC2 Mac.

This pattern can be extended to a fleet of EC2 Macs instances all while
relying on Systems Manager capabilities to retrieve the state of the
fleet and invoke operations on individual nodes. Complex scenarios with
multiple build pipelines would necessitate the need for a more feature
rich build orchestrator than the rudimentary event-based sourcing
pattern shown. For that, let’s look at what we can achieve with a
popular automation server called Jenkins.

=== Orchestrating multiple builds with Jenkins

Jenkins has a powerful extension and plugin system that allows
developers to write plugins affecting nearly every aspect of Jenkins'
behavior. Jenkins can be run on AWS in several different ways, directly
on EC2, using ECS Fargate as serverless or even EKS. To focus more on
the iOS builds let’s assume a simple single node Jenkins setup running
on EC2 Linux like shown in Figure-3. Using plugins like
[.underline]#Configuration as code#, [.underline]#SSH build agents# you
can define several parameters that simplifies deploying Jenkins to AWS,
more on this here

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image3.png[image,width=616,height=220]

Figure-3: Multiple Build Jobs invoked by Jenkins Agent on EC2 Mac
instances.

Jenkins has the notion of a node, which in this case is an EC2 Mac
instance, and executors, think of them as multiple processes within the
node. If you configure the number of executors on the node as 2, you can
in theory run two Xcode build jobs on a single EC2 Mac instance. Jenkins
will handle the job orchestration as well as queuing up multiple jobs
for each executor on the node. You can have several iOS build pipelines
consuming the same build infrastructure. However, once the amount of
time the build jobs waiting in the queue for an executor to be available
increases, you may want to scale out into another EC2 Mac instance.

=== Auto-scaling with EC2 Mac instances

AWS Auto Scaling lets you build scaling plans that automate how groups
of different resources respond to changes in demand. One of the features
includes manual scaling operations typically used when you want an
external event to make the decision of scaling up or down the number of
instances in the group. In the case of scaling out Jenkins iOS builds,
the queue depth can be one of those variables. EC2 fleet plugin has
several options, including scaling up based on jobs waiting in the queue
and scaling down when nodes are idle.

Adding a new launched EC2 Mac instance from the auto scaling group to
the Jenkins controller is achieved by either SSH-based or JNLP-based
registration. More on those [.underline]#here#. Note however
that EC2 Mac dedicated hosts require a 24-hour minimum allocation
period, adhering to the macOS Software Licensing Agreement
([.underline]#SLA#), before they can be released.

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image4.png[image,width=620,height=282]

Figure-4: Multiple EC2 Mac instance executor nodes under an Auto Scaling
group.

=== Type-2 virtualization with EC2 Mac instances

Apple Silicon and macOS has virtualization and a hypervisor framework
built into it that lets you create guest virtual machines (VM) on top of
the host. EC2 Mac instances are bare metal EC2 instances and will let
you use this virtualization features to run up to 2 guest VM’s adhering
to the macOS SLA’s. [.underline]#Anka build# is one option that lets you
leverage this granularity along with their CI/CD plugin for Jenkins to
orchestrate multiple build jobs across a fleet of EC2 Mac instances.
Another option is [.underline]#Tart# that integrates into Cirrus labs CI
to accomplish similar goals. Here is a quick depiction on how this would
work from a Jenkins perspective, removing the well documented additional
components included in the individual products to make this happen.

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image5.png[image,width=622,height=442]

Figure-4: Type-2 virtualization enabling two guest virtual machines on
EC2 Mac.

An example of how to combine the benefits of these several layers of
scale out from AWS Autoscaling and macOS type-2 virtualization into one
cohesive build fleet is illustrated in the diagram below.

image:/images/post-images/2022-09-30-scaling-out-iOS-builds-on-AWS-with-EC2-mac/image6.png[image,width=615,height=291]

Figure-5: Combining all scale-out options together.

=== Conclusion:

In this blog post we have walked through several options available to
scale out iOS builds using Amazon EC2 Mac instances. We have also looked
at the integration options available with a popular automation tool,
Jenkins. Several of the options discussed here are implemented as
solutions published by AWS with links available in the reference section
for further reading.

=== References

Refer to these individual articles to dive deep into the many aspects
and options discussed in this blog and some more.

Anka Type-2 virtualization: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/getting-started-with-anka-on-ec2-mac-instances/

SQS based build agent: https://github.com/sebsto/swift-build-agent-sqs

iOS pipeline with ec2 mac: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/unify-your-ios-mobile-app-ci-cd-pipeline-with-amazon-ec2-mac-instances-2/

TeamCity: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/apn/implementing-macos-build-agents-into-teamcity-using-amazon-ec2-mac-instances/

Auto-scaling: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/implementing-autoscaling-for-ec2-mac-instances/

Virtualbuddy: https://github.com/insidegui/VirtualBuddy

Tart: https://github.com/cirruslabs/tart

Ec2-macos-init: https://github.com/aws/ec2-macos-init

Harness: https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/vm-build-infrastructure/define-macos-build-infra-with-anka-registry/

Fastlane: https://docs.fastlane.tools/
