content/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
wip: true
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Groovy Hook Scripts

In several places inside Jenkins, a series of "hook scripts" get executed to allow some actions to take place in reaction to some key
events.

These scripts are written in Groovy, and get executed inside the same JVM as Jenkins, allowing full access to the domain model of Jenkins. 
For given hook _HOOK_, the following locations are searched:

* `+WEB-INF/HOOK.groovy+` in `+jenkins.war+`
* `+WEB-INF/HOOK.groovy.d/*.groovy+` in the lexical order in `+jenkins.war+`
* `+$JENKINS_HOME/HOOK.groovy+`
* `+$JENKINS_HOME/HOOK.groovy.d/*.groovy+` in the lexical order

`+HOOK.groovy.d+` is suitable to avoid conflicts — multiple entities can
insert stuff into the hook without worrying about overwriting each
other's code.

The following events use this mechanism by replacing `+HOOK+` in `+HOOK.groovy.d+` or `+HOOK.groovy+` by one of the below mentioned types:

* *init*: Post-initialization script
* *boot-failure*: Boot failure hook

== Post initialization script (init hook)
You can create a Groovy script file `+$JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy+`, or
any `+.groovy+` file in the directory `+$JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy.d/+`,
to run some additional things right after Jenkins starts up. 
The groovy scripts are executed at the end of Jenkins initialization.
This script can access classes in Jenkins and all the plugins.
So for example, you can write something like:

[source, groovy]
....
import jenkins.model.Jenkins;

// start in the state that doesn't do any build.
Jenkins.instance.doQuietDown();
....

Output is logged to the Jenkins log file. For Debian based users, this
is /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log


== Boot failure hook
When Jenkins encounters a fatal problem during boot, it'll invoke
"boot-failure" hook script to allow automatic corrective actions to be taken 
(such as notifying somebody, raising alerts, restarting, and so on.)

These scripts get the cause of the problem as the "exception" variable
when run.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Docker Groovy script path (#7740)
* Update documentation for Docker Groovy script path

* Update content/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts.adoc

Co-authored-by: Bruno Verachten <gounthar@gmail.com>

* Update content/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts.adoc

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update groovy-hook-scripts.adoc

Update documentation for Docker Groovy script path:

1.Incorporated the  suggestion to add a reference to the official Jenkins Docker documentation.
2.Provided a link to the relevant section in the Jenkins Docker README for clarity and better understanding.
3.Ensured the note explains why the $JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy.d/ path does not exist for Docker users and offers the correct alternative directory.


This change improves the documentation by making it more informative and user-friendly.

* Update content/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts.adoc

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* adjust naming

---------

Co-authored-by: Bruno Verachten <gounthar@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

content/doc/book/managing/groovy-hook-scripts.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
wip: true
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Groovy Hook Scripts

In several places inside Jenkins, a series of "hook scripts" get executed to allow some actions to take place in reaction to some key
events.

These scripts are written in Groovy, and get executed inside the same JVM as Jenkins, allowing full access to the domain model of Jenkins. 
For given hook _HOOK_, the following locations are searched:

* `+WEB-INF/HOOK.groovy+` in `+jenkins.war+`
* `+WEB-INF/HOOK.groovy.d/*.groovy+` in the lexical order in `+jenkins.war+`
* `+$JENKINS_HOME/HOOK.groovy+`
* `+$JENKINS_HOME/HOOK.groovy.d/*.groovy+` in the lexical order

`+HOOK.groovy.d+` is suitable to avoid conflicts — multiple entities can
insert stuff into the hook without worrying about overwriting each
other's code.

The following events use this mechanism by replacing `+HOOK+` in `+HOOK.groovy.d+` or `+HOOK.groovy+` by one of the below mentioned types:

* *init*: Post-initialization script
* *boot-failure*: Boot failure hook

== Post initialization script (init hook)
You can create a Groovy script file `+$JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy+`, or
any `+.groovy+` file in the directory `+$JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy.d/+`,
to run some additional things right after Jenkins starts up. 
The groovy scripts are executed at the end of Jenkins initialization.
This script can access classes in Jenkins and all the plugins.
So for example, you can write something like:

[source, groovy]
....
import jenkins.model.Jenkins;

// start in the state that doesn't do any build.
Jenkins.instance.doQuietDown();
....

Output is logged to the Jenkins log file. For Debian based users, this
is /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log

NOTE: If you are using the Jenkins Docker image, `$JENKINS_HOME/init.groovy.d/` does not exist.
Instead, you should place the Groovy script files in `/usr/share/jenkins/ref/init.groovy.d/`, as this directory is copied when the Docker container starts.
For more details, refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker?tab=readme-ov-file#installing-more-tools[Installing more tools documentation].

== Boot failure hook
When Jenkins encounters a fatal problem during boot, it'll invoke
"boot-failure" hook script to allow automatic corrective actions to be taken 
(such as notifying somebody, raising alerts, restarting, and so on.)

These scripts get the cause of the problem as the "exception" variable
when run.
