content/doc/book/managing/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: chapter
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
endif::[]

= Managing Jenkins

Most standard administrative tasks can be performed from the screens
in the *Manage Jenkins* section of the dashboard.
In this chapter, we look at these screens and explain how to use them.

The tiles displayed on the *Manage Jenkins* page are grouped logically.
Here we discuss the pages that are part of the standard installation.
Plugins may add pages to this screen.

The top of the *Manage Jenkins* screen may contain "Monitors"
that alert you when a new version
of the Jenkins software or a security update is available.
Each monitor includes a description of the issue it is reporting and links to additional information about the issue

Inline help is available on most *Manage Jenkins* pages:

* To access the help, select the `?` icon to the right of each field.
* Click the `?` icon again to hide the help text.

Other system administration topics are discussed in
<<system-administration#,Jenkins System Administration>>.

== System Configuration group

Screens for configuring resources for your Jenkins instance.

link:system-configuration[System]::
Configure global settings and paths for the Jenkins instance

link:tools[Tools]::
Configure tools, their locations, and automatic installers

link:plugins[Plugins]::
Add, update, remove, disable/enable plugins
that extend the functionality of Jenkins.

link:nodes[Nodes and Clouds]::
Add, remove, control, and monitor the nodes used for the agents on which build jobs run.

link:casc[Configuration as Code]::
Configure your Jenkins instance using a human-readable YAML file rather than the UI.
This is an optional feature that appears in this group
only when the plugin is installed on your controller.

== Security group

Screens for configuring security features for your Jenkins instance.
See link:/doc/book/security/[Securing Jenkins] for general information
about managing Jenkins security.

link:system-configuration[Security]::
Set configuration parameters that secure your Jenkins instance.

link:/doc/book/using/using-credentials/#adding-new-global-credentials[Manage Credentials]::
Configure the credentials that provide secure access
to third-party sites and applications that interact with Jenkins.

*Credential Providers*::
Configure credential providers and types

link:users[Users]::
Manage users defined in the Jenkins user database.
This is not used if you use a different security realm such as LDAP or AD.

== Status Information group

link:system-info[System Information]::
Displays information about the Jenkins environment.

link:/doc/book/system-administration/viewing-logs/[System Log]::
Jenkins log that contains all `java.util.logging` output related to Jenkins.

*Load Statistics*::
Displays information about resource utilization on you Jenkins instance.

link:about-jenkins[About Jenkins]::
Provides version and license information for your Jenkins instance.

== Troubleshooting group

*Manage Old Data*::
Remove configuration information related to plugins that have been removed from the instance.

== Tools and Actions group

Screens for common management tasks
and management tools that enable you to do administrative tasks without using the UI.

*Reload Configuration from Disk*::
Discard all data that is loaded in memory and reload everything from the file system.
This is useful when you modify configuration files directly on disk.

link:cli[Jenkins CLI]::
How to use the Jenkins CLI from a shell or script.

link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console]::
Execute an Apache Groovy script for administration, troubleshooting, and diagnostics.

Prepare for Shutdown::
Prevents new builds from starting so that the system can be shut down safely.
Displays a red banner with a custom message so that users know what is about to happen.

image:managing/prepare-for-shutdown.png[Red headband with a custom message]

[NOTE]
This does not ask Jenkins to stop; this action will just prevent new builds from starting.
If you need to stop or restart Jenkins, you should use the command line or the `/restart` and `/safeRestart` end points.
There is also a plugin called https://plugins.jenkins.io/saferestart/[Safe Restart] that will add a `Restart Safely` link in the UI.

== Uncategorized group

Screens for plugins that have not yet declared the category of their page.

Commit message:

Updating "instance" usage in managing docs

content/doc/book/managing/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: chapter
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
endif::[]

= Managing Jenkins

Most standard administrative tasks can be performed from the screens
in the *Manage Jenkins* section of the dashboard.
In this chapter, we look at these screens and explain how to use them.

The tiles displayed on the *Manage Jenkins* page are grouped logically.
Here we discuss the pages that are part of the standard installation.
Plugins may add pages to this screen.

The top of the *Manage Jenkins* screen may contain "Monitors"
that alert you when a new version
of the Jenkins software or a security update is available.
Each monitor includes a description of the issue it is reporting and links to additional information about the issue

Inline help is available on most *Manage Jenkins* pages:

* To access the help, select the `?` icon to the right of each field.
* Click the `?` icon again to hide the help text.

Other system administration topics are discussed in
<<system-administration#,Jenkins System Administration>>.

== System Configuration group

Screens for configuring resources for your Jenkins controller.

link:system-configuration[System]::
Configure global settings and paths for the Jenkins controller

link:tools[Tools]::
Configure tools, their locations, and automatic installers

link:plugins[Plugins]::
Add, update, remove, disable/enable plugins
that extend the functionality of Jenkins.

link:nodes[Nodes and Clouds]::
Add, remove, control, and monitor the nodes used for the agents on which build jobs run.

link:casc[Configuration as Code]::
Configure your Jenkins controller using a human-readable YAML file rather than the UI.
This is an optional feature that appears in this group
only when the plugin is installed on your controller.

== Security group

Screens for configuring security features for your Jenkins controller.
See link:/doc/book/security/[Securing Jenkins] for general information
about managing Jenkins security.

link:system-configuration[Security]::
Set configuration parameters that secure your Jenkins controller.

link:/doc/book/using/using-credentials/#adding-new-global-credentials[Manage Credentials]::
Configure the credentials that provide secure access
to third-party sites and applications that interact with Jenkins.

*Credential Providers*::
Configure credential providers and types

link:users[Users]::
Manage users defined in the Jenkins user database.
This is not used if you use a different security realm such as LDAP or AD.

== Status Information group

link:system-info[System Information]::
Displays information about the Jenkins environment.

link:/doc/book/system-administration/viewing-logs/[System Log]::
Jenkins log that contains all `java.util.logging` output related to Jenkins.

*Load Statistics*::
Displays information about resource utilization on you Jenkins controller.

link:about-jenkins[About Jenkins]::
Provides version and license information for your Jenkins controller.

== Troubleshooting group

*Manage Old Data*::
Remove configuration information related to plugins that have been removed from the controller.

== Tools and Actions group

Screens for common management tasks
and management tools that enable you to do administrative tasks without using the UI.

*Reload Configuration from Disk*::
Discard all data that is loaded in memory and reload everything from the file system.
This is useful when you modify configuration files directly on disk.

link:cli[Jenkins CLI]::
How to use the Jenkins CLI from a shell or script.

link:/doc/book/managing/script-console/[Script Console]::
Execute an Apache Groovy script for administration, troubleshooting, and diagnostics.

Prepare for Shutdown::
Prevents new builds from starting so that the system can be shut down safely.
Displays a red banner with a custom message so that users know what is about to happen.

image:managing/prepare-for-shutdown.png[Red headband with a custom message]

[NOTE]
This does not ask Jenkins to stop; this action will just prevent new builds from starting.
If you need to stop or restart Jenkins, you should use the command line or the `/restart` and `/safeRestart` end points.
There is also a plugin called https://plugins.jenkins.io/saferestart/[Safe Restart] that will add a `Restart Safely` link in the UI.

== Uncategorized group

Screens for plugins that have not yet declared the category of their page.
