---
layout: simplepage
title: "Blue Ocean"
section: projects
---

:toc:

++++
<style>
.jumbotron.featured {
    background: #042E54 url(/images/post-images/blueocean/weather-icons.png) no-repeat center;
    background-size: cover;
    position: relative;
    overflow: hidden;
    width: 100%;
    height: 160px;
}
</style>
++++

We are excited to share and invite the community to join us on a project we've
been thinking about over the last few months called Blue Ocean.

Blue Ocean is a project that rethinks the user experience of Jenkins, modelling
and presenting the process of software delivery by surfacing information that's
important to development teams.

The name Blue Ocean comes from the book
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Ocean_Strategy[Blue Ocean Strategy]
where instead of looking at strategic problems within a contested space you
look at problems in the larger uncontested space. To put this more simply,
consider this quote from ice hockey legend Wayne Gretzky: "skate to where the
puck is going to be, not where it has been".

Before we dig into what Blue Ocean is we should understand where we are in 2016
and how developers expectations on how tools are designed and built have
changed over the last ten years since the Jenkins project's inception.

++++
<div class="jumbotron featured"></div>
<br/>
++++

== Developer Experience

The world has moved on from developer tools that are purely functional to
developer tools being part of a "developer experience". That is to say, it's no
longer about a single tool but the many tools developers use throughout the day
and how they work together to achieve a workflow that's beneficial for the
developer - this is Developer Experience.

Developer tools companies like Heroku, Atlassian and Github have raised the bar
for what is considered good developer experience, and developers are
increasingly expecting exceptional design. In recent years developers are
becoming more rapidly attracted to tools that are not only functional but are
designed to fit into their workflow seamlessly and are a joy to use. This shift
represents a higher standard of design and user experience that Jenkins needs
to rise to meet.

Creating and visualising continuous delivery pipelines is something valuable
for many Jenkins users and this is demonstrated in the 5+ plugins that the
community has created to meet their needs. To us this indicates a need to
revisit how Jenkins currently expresses these concepts and consider delivery
pipelines as a central theme to the Jenkins user experience.

It's not just continuous delivery concepts but the tools that developers use
every day – Github, Bitbucket, Slack, HipChat, Puppet or Docker. It's about
more than Jenkins – it's the developer workflow that surrounds Jenkins that
spans multiple tools.

New teams have little time for learning to assemble their own Jenkins
experience – they want to improve their time to market by shipping better
software faster. Assembling that ideal Jenkins experience is something we can
work together as a community of Jenkins users and contributors to define. As
time progresses, developers' expectations of good user experience will change
and the mission of Blue Ocean will enable the Jenkins project to respond.

The Jenkins community has poured its sweat and tears into building the most
technically capable and extensible software automation tool in existence. Not
doing anything to revolutionise the Jenkins developer experience today is just
inviting someone else – in closed source – to do it.


== Exploring the Blue Ocean

We are in the process of tightening up our designs and we will be providing a
complete clickable prototype shortly. In the meantime, here's a quick tour of
Blue Ocean.


image:/images/post-images/blueocean/pipeline-activity.png[Pipeline activity, role=center]

=== Pipelines

The first thing you should know about this project is that it "Pipeline
centric" - that is to say, it uses Pipeline and its related concepts as a
foundation to enable use cases that Jenkins hasn't handled before.

We understand that Pipeline isn't for everyone – a lot of people still have
FreeStyle – but we want to change that by providing a slick way to create their
pipelines from the user interface without having to write a Jenkinsfile or
losing the ease of Freestyle jobs. Then when you're ready for the full Pipeline
experience, Blue Ocean will provide easy access to a generated Jenkinsfile that
you can check into your repository.

Of course, your existing FreeStyle jobs show up in Blue Ocean and just get
displayed without the Pipeline-specific  information.

image:/images/post-images/blueocean/failing-pipeline.png[Failing Pipeline, role=center]
image:/images/post-images/blueocean/successful-pipeline.png[Successful Pipeline, role=center]


=== Personalisation

The Personalised Dashboard gives a single developer the things that they care
about front-and-center so that you can work better with your team.

It responds pre-emptively to your activity showing you the status of processes
that you are interested in.

Here's a couple of use cases:

* If a Pipeline is waiting for your approval it goes to the top of the dashboard.
* If you create a branch and push it to your repo, the pipelines integrating
  that branch will display on the dashboard.
* Favourite any Pipeline or one of its branches from the UI and its status will appear.

With Personalisation, we aim to answer important questions such as "Can I go to
lunch?" or "Is it safe for me to book my vacation?" – this area is ripe for
ideas.

image:/images/post-images/blueocean/personalized-dashboard.png[Personalized dashboard, role=center]

=== Design Language

Jenkins is nothing without its ecosystem of 1000+ plugins and we believe it's
important that Blue Ocean brings them along for the ride. Most developers in
our community don't consider themselves hot shot frontend developers or
designers, that's why we are introducing a consistent design language and
accompanying JavaScript and CSS framework. If you're familiar with Google's
link:https://www.google.com/design/spec/material-design/introduction.html[Material
Design], Twitter link:http://getbootstrap.com/[Bootstrap], Apple's
link:https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UserExperience/Conceptual/MobileHIG/[Human
Interface Guidelines] or Microsoft
link:https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/hh465424.aspx[Modern
UI] you will be right at home here.

For those curious about the technology stack here, we are working with a
combination of
link:https://medium.com/sons-of-javascript/javascript-an-introduction-to-es6-1819d0d89a0f#.72c3e6snq[ES6]
and
link:https://medium.com/@tomastrajan/introduction-to-react-and-flux-6043d63610cd#.stjh5un3g[React]
which we believe will be provide a smooth learning experience for those strong
in Java skills but not so confident in CSS/JS.  React's component based way of
describing user interfaces also complements the way that Jenkins Extensibility
works. We've extended the plugin system and toolchain to work with React
components.

image:/images/post-images/blueocean/jdl.png[Jenkins Design Language, role=center]

== FAQ

=== Where can I find the source code?

The source code can be found on Github:

* link:http://github.com/cloudbees/blueocean[Blue Ocean]
* link:http://github.com/cloudbees/jenkins-design-language[Jenkins Design Language]

=== How will Jenkins users consume the Blue Ocean UI?

Blue Ocean will be packaged in a plugin and made available for installation via
the update center. The aim is to deliver it without modifying your existing
Jenkins configuration so you can run it side by side with the classic Jenkins
UI.

=== What does this mean for the classic Jenkins UI?

The intention is that as Blue Ocean matures there will be less and less reasons
for users to go back to the existing UI.

For example, in the first version we will mainly be targeting Pipeline jobs.
You might be able to see your existing non-pipeline jobs in Blue Ocean but it
might not be possible to configure them from the new UI for some time. This
means users will have to jump back to the classic UI for configuration of
non-pipeline jobs.

There are likely going to be more examples of this and that's why the classic
UI will still be important in the long term.

=== What about my Freestyle jobs?

Blue Ocean aims to deliver a great experience around Pipeline and be compatible
with any Freestyle jobs that you have configured in your system. However, they
won't be able to benefit from any of the features built for Pipelines – for
example, Pipeline visualisation.

As Blue Ocean is designed to be extensible it will be possible for the
community to extend it for other job types in the future.

=== Is this a CloudBees project?

While the project's inception has happened within CloudBees we see this project
being one owned by the community.

At CloudBees we recognize the importance of a vibrant and healthy Jenkins
community, we see the company and community working in symbiosis: a thriving
developer community is good for CloudBees and CloudBees provides time and money
back into the community to make it stronger.

Blue Ocean is our way of giving back and strengthening. To that effect we've
put together a new a team of product, UX, frontend and backend developers (some
old faces and a lot of new ones!) that will be working on this project with the
community full time.

And I think it goes without saying but here it is anyway: any and all
development, discussion, bikeshedding ;) - you name it - will be happening on
the public Jenkins mailing lists and IRC room.

=== What does this mean for my plugins?

Extensibility is a pretty core concept to Jenkins, so being able to extend the
Blue Ocean UI is important. Based on some research, we worked out a way to
allow "<ExtensionPoint name=..>" to be used in the markup of Blue Ocean,
leaving places for plugins to contribute to the UI (plugins can have their own
Blue Ocean extension points, just like they do today in Jenkins). Blue Ocean
itself (as it is so far) is implemented using these extension points.
Extensions are delivered by plugins, as normal, only if they wish to contribute
to the Blue Ocean experience they will have some additional javascript that
provides extensions.

=== What technologies are currently in use?

Blue Ocean is built as a collection of Jenkins plugins itself. There is one key
difference, however. It provides both its own endpoint for http requests and
delivers up html/javascript via a different path, without the existing Jenkins
UI markup/scripts. React.js and ES6 are used to deliver the javascript
components of Blue Ocean. Inspired by this excellent open source project
(link:https://nylas.com/blog/react-plugins[react-plugins]) an <ExtensionPoint>pattern was
established, that allows extensions to come from any Jenkins plugin (only with
Javascript) and should they fail to load, have failures isolated.
