---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins Contributors Awarded Top Honors at Jenkins World 2017"
tags:
- event
- jenkinsworld
author: alyssat
---

[NOTE]
====
This is a guest post by link:https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong], who runs
the link:/projects/jam[Jenkins Area Meetup] program and is also responsible for
Marketing & Community Programs at link:https://cloudbees.com[CloudBees, Inc.]
====

image::/images/post-images/jenkinsworld-awards/award.jpg[Awards, role=right]

For the first time at Jenkins World, the Jenkins project honored the
achievement of three Jenkins contributors in the areas of Most Valuable
Contributor, Jenkins Security MVP, and most Valuable Advocate. These three
individuals has consistently demonstrated excellence and proven value to the
project. With gratitude and congratulations, below are the well deserved
winners:

*link:https://github.com/slide[Alex Earl] - Most Valuable Contributor*

Alex is the current or previous maintainer of some of the most used Jenkins
plugins and has been for years. He's a regular contributor to project policy
discussions, and helps to keep the project running by improving the Jenkins
project infrastructure, moderating the mailing lists and processing requests
for hosting new plugins.

*link:https://github.com/stevemarlowe[Steve Marlowe] - Jenkins Security MVP*

Steve is one of the most prolific reporter of security vulnerabilities in
Jenkins. His reports are well-written, clearly identify the problematic
behavior, and provide references that help quickly resolve the reported issue.
On top of that, Steve is always responsive when asked for clarification.

*link:https://github.com/ikikko[Tomonari Nakamura] - Most Valuable Advocate*

image::/images/post-images/jenkinsworld-awards/tomonari.jpg[Ikikko, role=right]

Tomonari leads the Jenkins User Group in Tokyo, which is one of the largest and
the most active with a long history. The group has been organizing meet-ups for
more than 10 times now, and every meet-up fills up to 100% very quickly with
regular turn-out of 100-200 people. At one point the group under his leadership
organized a fully volunteer-run "Jenkins User Conference" in Tokyo that
commanded 1000+ attendees.

Congratulations to our winners.

We can't wait to recognize more contributors at Jenkins World 2018!
