content/_data/upgrades/2-440-2.adoc, before:

NOTE: These upgrade are not specific to the 2.440.2 release, but are crucial for Jenkins users.

==== OpenJDK Upgrade

Due to a recent change in the upstream OpenJDK, users may encounter a breaking change if they do not upgrade and restart their Java processes.
When upgrading the Java runtime to OpenJDK 11.0.22 and later or 17.0.10 and later, you must restart the Java process.
This practice applies to both controllers and agents: when upgrading the Java runtime on the controller, restart the Java process on the controller; when upgrading the Java runtime on the agent, restart the Java process on the agent.

==== Jakarta Plugin Upgrades

Users that have the plugin:jakarta-mail-api[Jakarta Mail API] and plugin:jakarta-activation-api[Jakarta Activation API] plugins installed in their Jenkins instance must update both plugins to the latest version in lockstep.
If the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jakarta-mail-api-plugin/releases/tag/jakarta-mail-api-2.1.3-1[Jakarta Mail] and link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jakarta-activation-api-plugin/releases/tag/jakarta-activation-api-2.1.3-1[Activation] API plugins are not updated subsequently this will cause a breaking change.
As with any update or upgrade we advise link:/doc/book/system-administration/backing-up/[backing up] your instance and upgrading all plugins before and after you update Jenkins.

Commit message:

Link to the OpenJDK upgrade issue in Jira
https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-72665 has more details for
readers that need to better understand the root of the issue and the
reason that they must restart the Java process when the Java runtime
is upgraded.

Segmentation violation or segfault is reported by Java when Java tries
to spawn a new process after an upgrade from a Java 11 version before
11.0.22 to a Java 11 version 11.0.22 or later.  Same failure when they
upgrade Java from a Java 17 version before 17.0.10 to a Java version
17.0.10 or later.

The segfault is only reported when the previous version of the JDK is
trying to use the spawnhelper of the new version.  If the user stops
the Java process and restarts it, the problem will not occur.

content/_data/upgrades/2-440-2.adoc, after:

NOTE: These upgrade are not specific to the 2.440.2 release, but are crucial for Jenkins users.

==== OpenJDK Upgrade

Due to a recent change in the upstream OpenJDK, users may encounter a breaking change if they do not upgrade and restart their Java processes.
When upgrading the Java runtime to OpenJDK 11.0.22 and later or 17.0.10 and later, you **must** restart the Java process.
This practice applies to both controllers and agents: when upgrading the Java runtime on the controller, restart the Java process on the controller; when upgrading the Java runtime on the agent, restart the Java process on the agent.

Details of the issue are available in link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-72665[JENKINS-72665].

==== Jakarta Plugin Upgrades

Users that have the plugin:jakarta-mail-api[Jakarta Mail API] and plugin:jakarta-activation-api[Jakarta Activation API] plugins installed in their Jenkins instance must update both plugins to the latest version in lockstep.
If the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jakarta-mail-api-plugin/releases/tag/jakarta-mail-api-2.1.3-1[Jakarta Mail] and link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jakarta-activation-api-plugin/releases/tag/jakarta-activation-api-2.1.3-1[Activation] API plugins are not updated subsequently this will cause a breaking change.
As with any update or upgrade we advise link:/doc/book/system-administration/backing-up/[backing up] your instance and upgrading all plugins before and after you update Jenkins.
