content/_data/upgrades/2-516-1.adoc, before:

==== Jenkins header redesign

With the release of 2.516.1, the Jenkins header has been redesigned for a more modern look and feel.

image::/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/jenkins-header-redesign.png[alt="Jenkins header redesign"]

The updated header now includes the *Manage Jenkins* link, which was previously located in the left navigation pane, as well as dropdown menus for additional actions and user management options.
Plugins such as plugin:support-core[Support Core] and plugin:design-library[Design Library] will now be added to the *More Actions* menu, providing a centralized location for plugin-specific actions.

image:/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/manage-jenkins.png[alt="New manage jenkins location in updated header."] image:/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/more-actions.png[alt="Additional actions available in updated header."]

The top navigation now features direct links to various actions and areas of the pipeline, branch, job, and more.

image::/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/updated-breadcrumb-nav.png[alt="Updated breadcrumb navigation bar in Jenkins header."]
{empty}

==== Utilize Spring Security for Jenkins' own user database passwords

Jenkins' own user database no longer supports creating *new* passwords longer than 72 bytes (UTF-8), which is the maximum length supported by the link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt[bcrypt password hashing function] it uses.
This length corresponds to 72 basic ASCII characters, 24 - 36 CJK characters, or 18 emoji.

Existing passwords longer than 72 bytes can still be used to log in.
Users with longer passwords are advised to change their password to be at most 72 bytes, while choosing from a larger character set to achieve the same complexity.

Note that this limit does not apply when operating in link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/system-administration/FIPS-140/[FIPS-140 mode].

==== Remove RunIdMigrator

New jobs no longer create an empty `legacyIds` marker file in the builds directory.
Existing `legacyIds` files are deleted upon upgrade to reduce inode usage.

No action is required when upgrading from a version prior to 2.516.1.
On the first startup after upgrading, you will see an info log: `hudson.model.Job#onLoad: Deleting legacyIds file in /.../JENKINS_HOME/jobs/my-job/builds. See [JENKINS-75465](https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-75465) for more information.`.

However, if you decide to downgrade after upgrading, you should manually create the `legacyIds` file in the builds directory to prevent a potential slow startup.
This is because the older version will perform migration checks when the file is missing.
For reference, refer to link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-ci-kb/latest/client-and-managed-controllers/jenkins-startup-logs-show-runidmigrator-logs#_workaround[this CloudBees knowledge base workaround bash script].

==== Views tab now configurable per user

As of Jenkins 2.516.1, the configuration as code entry for `myViewsTabBar` is deprecated.
Each user can now select one of the implementations of `ViewsTabBar` to be used for the *My Views* dashboard.

==== Value attribute added to button element in `submit.jelly`

The button element in `submit.jelly` now includes a value attribute to handle form submissions better.
Plugins that rely on an empty string as the value of the submit button for POST requests must be updated to instead use the displayed value of the button.

==== Remove jbcrypt library

The `jbcrypt` library has been removed from Jenkins.
Users of the plugin:active-directory[Active Directory] plugin must update to version 2.40 before upgrading to Jenkins 2.516.1.

==== `SameSite` attribute is set for HTTP cookies

The `SameSite` attribute is set for HTTP cookies to provide additional protection from some CSRF vulnerabilities when running with the default Jetty container (`java -jar jenkins.war`).
By default this sets the attribute to `Lax`.
This can be changed by setting the Java system property `jenkins.security.JettySameSiteCookieSetup.sameSiteDefault`.
Users of the plugin:azure-ad[Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD) Plugin] should update the plugin to version 580.v2f665882b_a_71 or newer before upgrading to Jenkins 2.516.1.

Commit message:

add note about customizable header (#8312)
* add note about customizable header

* Phrasing change and sentence per line

Minor phrasing change "The Customizable Header plugin" instead of "The plugin Customizable Header"

---------

Co-authored-by: Mark Waite <mark.earl.waite@gmail.com>

content/_data/upgrades/2-516-1.adoc, after:

==== Jenkins header redesign

With the release of 2.516.1, the Jenkins header has been redesigned for a more modern look and feel.

image::/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/jenkins-header-redesign.png[alt="Jenkins header redesign"]

The updated header now includes the *Manage Jenkins* link, which was previously located in the left navigation pane, as well as dropdown menus for additional actions and user management options.
Plugins such as plugin:support-core[Support Core] and plugin:design-library[Design Library] will now be added to the *More Actions* menu, providing a centralized location for plugin-specific actions.

image:/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/manage-jenkins.png[alt="New manage jenkins location in updated header."] image:/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/more-actions.png[alt="Additional actions available in updated header."]

The top navigation now features direct links to various actions and areas of the pipeline, branch, job, and more.

image::/images/post-images/2025/07/2-516-1/updated-breadcrumb-nav.png[alt="Updated breadcrumb navigation bar in Jenkins header."]
 
The plugin:customizable-header[Customizable Header] plugin should be updated in lockstep to the latest version.
Older versions are not compatible and the changes to the header will not be applied.

==== Utilize Spring Security for Jenkins' own user database passwords

Jenkins' own user database no longer supports creating *new* passwords longer than 72 bytes (UTF-8), which is the maximum length supported by the link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt[bcrypt password hashing function] it uses.
This length corresponds to 72 basic ASCII characters, 24 - 36 CJK characters, or 18 emoji.

Existing passwords longer than 72 bytes can still be used to log in.
Users with longer passwords are advised to change their password to be at most 72 bytes, while choosing from a larger character set to achieve the same complexity.

Note that this limit does not apply when operating in link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/system-administration/FIPS-140/[FIPS-140 mode].

==== Remove RunIdMigrator

New jobs no longer create an empty `legacyIds` marker file in the builds directory.
Existing `legacyIds` files are deleted upon upgrade to reduce inode usage.

No action is required when upgrading from a version prior to 2.516.1.
On the first startup after upgrading, you will see an info log: `hudson.model.Job#onLoad: Deleting legacyIds file in /.../JENKINS_HOME/jobs/my-job/builds. See [JENKINS-75465](https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-75465) for more information.`.

However, if you decide to downgrade after upgrading, you should manually create the `legacyIds` file in the builds directory to prevent a potential slow startup.
This is because the older version will perform migration checks when the file is missing.
For reference, refer to link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-ci-kb/latest/client-and-managed-controllers/jenkins-startup-logs-show-runidmigrator-logs#_workaround[this CloudBees knowledge base workaround bash script].

==== Views tab now configurable per user

As of Jenkins 2.516.1, the configuration as code entry for `myViewsTabBar` is deprecated.
Each user can now select one of the implementations of `ViewsTabBar` to be used for the *My Views* dashboard.

==== Value attribute added to button element in `submit.jelly`

The button element in `submit.jelly` now includes a value attribute to handle form submissions better.
Plugins that rely on an empty string as the value of the submit button for POST requests must be updated to instead use the displayed value of the button.

==== Remove jbcrypt library

The `jbcrypt` library has been removed from Jenkins.
Users of the plugin:active-directory[Active Directory] plugin must update to version 2.40 before upgrading to Jenkins 2.516.1.

==== `SameSite` attribute is set for HTTP cookies

The `SameSite` attribute is set for HTTP cookies to provide additional protection from some CSRF vulnerabilities when running with the default Jetty container (`java -jar jenkins.war`).
By default this sets the attribute to `Lax`.
This can be changed by setting the Java system property `jenkins.security.JettySameSiteCookieSetup.sameSiteDefault`.
Users of the plugin:azure-ad[Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD) Plugin] should update the plugin to version 580.v2f665882b_a_71 or newer before upgrading to Jenkins 2.516.1.
