content/_data/upgrades/2-541-1.adoc, before:

==== Unified RPM package for Red Hat and openSUSE

Red Hat and openSUSE have the same RPM packages from the same unified repository at link:https://pkg.jenkins.io/rpm-stable/[https://pkg.jenkins.io/rpm-stable/].
Users with an already installed prior version are transparently redirected when refreshing their repositories: https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/ and https://pkg.jenkins.io/opensuse-stable/ both redirect to the new URL.

The old repositories are retained and allow older versions (before 2.541.1) to be installed
by using the following URLs: https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable-legacy/ for Red Hat distributions and https://pkg.jenkins.io/opensuse-stable-legacy/ for openSUSE distributions.

Note for openSUSE users: the System V initialization scripts are removed for openSUSE installations (details in the link:/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/[blog post]).

==== New GPG signing key for Linux packages

Linux packages (RPM and DEB) are signed with a new GPG key.
Administrators need to accept the new signing key when upgrading.

Commit message:

Add content security policy section to upgrade guide
Also extends the RPM changes with one more sentence

content/_data/upgrades/2-541-1.adoc, after:

==== Content Security Policy support in Jenkins core

Jenkins now allows enforcing Content Security Policy.
This is a security mechanism that can reduce or eliminate the impact of web security vulnerabilities like cross-site-scripting (XSS).
Jenkins core and most popular Jenkins plugins are compatible with Jenkins's default rule set, but for backwards compatibility, CSP enforcement is disabled by default.

See the link:/doc/book/security/csp/[Content Security Policy documentation] for more information.

Users of link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/csp/[Content Security Policy Plugin] should disable it or update it to version 2.x.

==== Unified RPM package for Red Hat and openSUSE

Red Hat and openSUSE now use the same RPM packages from the same unified repository at link:https://pkg.jenkins.io/rpm-stable/[https://pkg.jenkins.io/rpm-stable/].
Users with an already installed prior version are transparently redirected when refreshing their repositories: https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/ and https://pkg.jenkins.io/opensuse-stable/ both redirect to the new URL.

By default, Red Hat and openSUSE package users that upgrade to 2.541.1 will not be able to downgrade to an older version, unless they modify their local yum or zypper repository definitions.
The old repositories are retained and allow older versions (before 2.541.1) to be installed by using the following URLs: https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable-legacy/ for Red Hat distributions and https://pkg.jenkins.io/opensuse-stable-legacy/ for openSUSE distributions.

Note for openSUSE users: the System V initialization scripts are removed for openSUSE installations (details in the link:/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/[blog post]).

==== New GPG signing key for Linux packages

Linux packages (RPM and DEB) are signed with a new GPG key.
Administrators need to accept the new signing key when upgrading.
