---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins Community Survey Results: CD, Pipelines, and Star Wars"
tags:
- jenkins
- survey
- continuous delivery
- pipelines
- docker
- star wars
author: bvdawson
---

*Jenkins Community Survey Results –Continuous Delivery, Pipelines and
Star Wars*

image:/images/blog/2016-survey-blog-butler.png[image,width=84,height=115]Last
fall, at the Jenkins User Conference – US West (JUC), the community
asked JUC attendees to take a survey. Almost 250 of you did – and thanks
to your input, we have some interesting results about what you are doing
with Jenkins.

Back in 2012, at the time of the last community survey, 83% of you felt
that Jenkins was mission-critical. By 2015, the percentage saying that
Jenkins was mission-critical was 92%. Additionally, echoing the
importance of Jenkins, 89% of respondents said their use of Jenkins had
increased over the last year, while 11% said it had stayed the same. 0%
said that it had decreased.

The trend in the industry over the last couple of years has been to
adopt continuous delivery (CD), thus pushing automation further down the
pipeline – from development all the way into production. Jenkins is
readily adaptable to this trend, since it is an orchestrator of
automation processes, but not tied to any specific phase of software
delivery. With its extensive plugin ecosystem, Jenkins can integrate
with almost any technology used in any phase of software delivery.

The trend to CD is clearly reflected amongst the community: 59% of
respondents are using Jenkins for CI, but an additional 30% have
extended CI into CD and are manually deploying code to production.
Finally, 11% are practicing continuous deployment – they have extended
CI to CD and are deploying code automatically into production.

Another trend tied to CD adoption and DevOps culture is the frequent
deployment of incremental releases to production. Of those utilizing
continuous delivery practices, 26% are deploying code at least once per
day. Another 37% are deploying code at least once per week.

In keeping with the move to CD, 30% of survey takers are already using
the relatively new Pipeline plugin to automate their software delivery
pipelines. Of those not using the Pipeline plugin, 79% plan to adopt it
in the next 12 months.

Survey takers multi-task with Jenkins, using it for many different
activities. 97% of survey takers use it for build – no surprise, since
that is where Jenkins got its start - but fully 58% now also use it for
deployment.

image:/images/blog/2016-survey-blog-strongbutler.jpg[image,width=264,height=131]ow

When the 2012 community survey was conducted, container technology
didn’t even really exist and no one would have known what a “Docker”
was. Fast-forward four years later and fully 96% of those using Linux
containers are using Docker. Containerization has been a huge trend and,
when coupled with automation, helps to also accelerate software delivery
tremendously. Fortunately, Jenkins plays well with containers and robust
community plugins exist for both Docker and Kubernetes.

The Jenkins improvements most desired by survey takers were:
quality/timely bug fixes, a better UI and more documentation/examples.
Interestingly, Jenkins 2.0 - which is just about to officially launch,
takes a big step in improving the UI and the new Jenkins.io website
takes a big step towards providing more and better documentation. Nice
to see community concerns being addressed!

image:/images/blog/2016-survey-blog-bb8.png[image,width=96,height=146]

Finally…and perhaps to some, most importantly, your favorite Star Wars
character was…R2-D2, followed by Obi-Wan and Darth Vader. Yoda and Han
Solo also got a fair amount of votes. Puzzling were the votes for
Jar-Jar Binks and Jabba the Hutt…Interestingly, BB-8 had a write-in vote
and the new Star Wars movie hadn’t even come out yet!

As to where the community is headed, going into the next community
survey we predict:

* More Jenkins users will have transitioned from just continuous
integration to continuous delivery and automated deployment
* The Pipeline plugin will have more uptake and will become an essential
plugin to those wanting to automate software pipelines and particularly
to those wanting everything-as-code
* Docker (and Kubernetes) plugin usage will climb
* BB-8 will be the next favorite Star Wars character! <3

See you at Jenkins World, September 13-15, in Santa Clara, California!
https://www.cloudbees.com/jenkinsworld/home[Register now] for the
largest Jenkins event on the planet in 2016 – and get the Early Bird
discount. The
https://jenkins-cfp.herokuapp.com/events/jenkins-world-2016[Call for
Papers] is still open – so submit a talk and share your knowledge with
the community about Jenkins.

link:/files/2015-Jenkins-Community-Survey-Results.pdf[2015 Community Survey Results (PDF)]

link:/files/State-of-Jenkins-Infographic-2015.pdf[State of Jenkins Infographic (PDF)]
