---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins World 2016: Call For Papers Is Open!"
tags:
- jenkins world
- event
- jenkins
author: alyssat
---

NOTE: _This is a guest post by link:https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong].
Alyssa works for link:https://www.cloudbees.com[CloudBees], helping to organize
Jenkins community events link:https://www.meetup.com/pro/jenkins[around the
world]._

image:/images/conferences/Jenkins-World_125x125.png[Jenkins World 2016,180,float="right",link="https://jenkins-cfp.herokuapp.com/events/jenkins-world-2016"]

Planning is underway for *Jenkins World*, a major Jenkins event for developers,
release engineers and others interested in automation. The conference will be
held from *September 13th to 15th* in Santa Clara, California and is being
organized and sponsored in part by link:https://www.cloudbees.com[CloudBees].
Just like the "Jenkins User Conferences" before it, this year's event will
feature many experts from the Jenkins community that help make Jenkins
the most popular open source automation server on the planet. We've found that
we outgrew the popular multi-city one-day Jenkins User Conferences, so unlike
previous years Jenkins World will be a three-day event in one place with an
incredible amount of great content.

The goal of the event is to bring Jenkins contributors and users of all levels
together, from around the world, to discuss, share and learn from one another.
Starting _today_ we're opening the
*link:https://jenkins-cfp.herokuapp.com/events/jenkins-world-2016[call for
proposals]*. As a global event, users from all over the world are encouraged to
submit a talk between now and *May 1st, 2016 (11:59pm PST)*.

We look forward to receiving your amazing submission, and seeing you in Santa
Clara this fall.

*link:https://jenkins-cfp.herokuapp.com/events/jenkins-world-2016[Submit a
proposal today!]*
