---
layout: post
title: "The State of Jenkins Area Meetups (JAM)"
tags:
- meetup
- JAM
- event
author: alyssat
---

Recently, the Jenkins project announced the release of
link:/blog/2016/04/26/jenkins-20-is-here/[Jenkins 2.0], a first major release
after 10 years and 655 weekly releases. This has been a major milestone for
Jenkins and its growing community of developers, testers, designers and other
users in the software delivery process.

With its rising popularity and wide adoption, the Jenkins community continues to
grow and evolve into the millions. Jenkins community meetup activity has risen
to an all time high since the first Jenkins meetup which was established on
August 23 2010, in San Francisco.

Over the last six months the number of
link:http://www.meetup.com/pro/jenkins/[Jenkins Area Meetup (JAM) Groups] has
grown from 5 to 30, with coverage in Asia, North America, South America and
Europe.  That’s an average growth of *4 new JAMs per month*.

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/JAM-map.png[JAM map]

As of today, there are over *4,100* Jenkins fans within the Jenkins meetup
community.  This is the result of contributions from community JAM leaders who
have volunteered their time to provide a platform for learning, sharing and
networking all things Jenkins within their local communities.

For anyone who has not organized a meetup before, there are many moving parts
that have to come together at a specific location, date and time. This process
takes significant effort to methodically plan out. From planning the food and
beverages to securing speaker(s), a venue, audio/visual setup, technical
logistics and of course promoting the meetup. It does takes a level of passion
and effort to make it all happen.

Many *THANKS* to the *55* JAM leaders, who share this passion - they have
successfully organized over *41* meetups within the past six months in North
America, South America and Europe. That’s about 6 meetups a month!

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/JAMs-over-time.png[JAMs over time]

There are still plenty of opportunities to be a JAM organizer. If there is not a
JAM link:http://www.meetup.com/pro/jenkins/[near you], we’d love to hear from
you! Here’s
link:https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Jenkins+Area+Meetup[how you can get
started].

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/toulouse-jam.png[Toulouse JAM 1,500]

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/toulouse-jam-2.png[Toulouse JAM
2,500]

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/seville-jam.png[Seville JAM,500]

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/peru-jam.png[Peru JAM,500]

image:/images/post-images/state-of-jam-2016/barcelona-jam.png[Barcelona JAM,500]

