---
layout: post
title: "Partnering with Microsoft to run Jenkins infrastructure on Azure"
tags:
- azure
- infra
- infrastructure
author: rtyler
---

I am pleased to announce that we have partnered with Microsoft to migrate and
power the Jenkins project's infrastructure with
link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/[Microsoft Azure]. The partnership comes
at an important time, after the recent launch of link:/2.0/[Jenkins 2.0],
Jenkins users are more readily adopting link:/solutions/pipeline[Pipeline as
Code] and many other plugins at an increasing rate, elevating the importance of
Jenkins infrastructure to the overall success of the project. That strong and
continued growth has brought new demands to our infrastructure's design and
implementation, requiring the next step in its evolution. This partnership helps
us grow with the rest of the project by unifying our existing infrastructure
under one comprehensive, modern and scalable platform.



In March we
link:http://meetings.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins-meeting/2016/jenkins-meeting.2016-03-30-18.00.html[discussed
the potential partnership] in our regularly scheduled
link:https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Agenda[project
meeting],
highlighting some of the infrastructure challenges that we face:

* Currently we have infrastructure in four different locations, with four
  different infrastructure providers, each with their own APIs and tools for
  managing resources, each with varying capabilities and capacities.
* Project infrastructure is managed by a team of volunteers, operating
  more than 15 different services and managing a number of additional external
  services.
* Our current download/mirror network, while geographically distributed, is
  relatively primitive and its implementation prevents us from using more modern
  distribution best practices.

In essence, five years of tremendous growth for Jenkins has outpaced our
organically grown, unnecessarily complex, project infrastructure. Migrating to
Azure simplifies and improves our infrastructure in a dramatic way that would
not be possible without a comprehensive platform consisting of: compute, CDN,
storage and data-store services. Our partnership covers, at minimum, the next
three years of the project's infrastructure needs, giving us a great home for
the future.

Azure also enables a couple of projects that link:https://github.com/rtyler[I]
have long been dreaming of providing to Jenkins users and contributors:

* End-to-end TLS encrypted distribution of Jenkins packages, plugins and
  metadata via the link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cdn/[Azure CDN].
* More complete build/test/release support and capacity on
  link:https://ci.jenkins.io[ci.jenkins.io] for plugin developers using
  link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/container-service/[Azure
  Container Service] and generic VMs.


The Jenkins infrastructure is link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra[all open
source] which means  all of our Docker containers, Puppet code and many of our
tools are all available link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra[on GitHub]. Not
only can you watch the migration process to Azure as it happens, but I also
invite you to *participate* in making our project's infrastructure better (join
us in the `#jenkins-infra` channel on link:http://freenode.net[Freenode] or our
link:http://lists.jenkins-ci.org/mailman/listinfo/jenkins-infra[mailing list]).

Suffice it to say, I'm very excited about the bright [blue] future for the
Jenkins project and the infrastructure that powers it!
