content/doc/developer/publishing/releasing-cd.adoc, before:

---
title: Setting up plugin releases through GitHub
layout: developer
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/229/README.adoc
  title: 'JEP-229: Continuous Delivery of Jenkins Components and Plugins'
---

== Introduction

Maintainers of Jenkins plugin repositories on GitHub can opt into continuous delivery (CD).
In this mode, any successful build of the default branch (`master` or `main`) by ci.jenkins.io can result in a new plugin release.
GitHub Actions are used to rebuild the code and deploy it to Artifactory,
without the need for maintainers to use personal credentials or local builds.
Release notes are generated automatically according to pull request (PR) titles and some predefined labels.

IMPORTANT: `maven-release-plugin` (MRP) is not used in this mode.
Rather than traditional version numbers like `1.23` or `2.3.4` which are chosen by the maintainer,
a CD release will have a version of the form `123.vabcdef456789`:
an integer component determined by the Git history depth,
and an informational component with the Git commit hash.

NOTE: Push the work to prepare your plugin for CD to a dedicated branch, which you file a pull request from to your default branch.
When enabling CD, the hosting team reviews this PR containing all necessary changes in your plugin, to prevent improper releases and mistakes.
Don't push the changes directly to the default branch or merge the PR before the hosting team has reviewed it.

== Checklist

=== Incrementals Enablement

Verify that the plugin has already been link:../../plugin-development/incrementals[incrementalified].
The file `pom.xml` should contain `<version>$\{revision}$\{changelist}</version>` and the files `.mvn/extensions.xml` and `.mvn/maven.config` should exist *before proceeding with subsequent steps*.

NOTE: A new plugin created from the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/[archetypes] will already have this setup.

Here are some PR examples for various plugins to enable CD:

- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/junit-plugin/pull/395/files[junit]
- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/kubernetes-plugin/pull/1139/files[kubernetes-plugin]
- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plain-credentials-plugin/pull/31/files[plain-credentials-plugin]

=== Configure CD Workflow

Create the CD workflow as a copy of the template:

[source,shell]
----
mkdir -p .github/workflows
curl --silent --show-error --location --output .github/workflows/cd.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/.github/master/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
git add .github/workflows/cd.yaml
----

If you want to prevent automatic releases after PRs are merged, edit the `.github/workflows/cd.yaml` and remove the `check_run` workflow trigger, leaving only `workflow_dispatch`:

[source,diff]
----
--- a/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
+++ b/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
@@ -3,9 +3,6 @@
 name: cd
 on:
   workflow_dispatch:
-  check_run:
-    types:
-      - completed

 permissions:
   checks: read
----

=== Configure Release Drafter

You can delete any existing Release Drafter configuration,
as the default is to assume link:https://github.com/probot/octokit-plugin-config/blob/fa1700ed56e2c76afb4dd618bf27e7c8a445c4d8/src/util/get-config-files.ts#L37-L51[`_extends: .github`];
and/or workflow, as that will be subsumed by the CD workflow:

[source,shell]
----
git rm .github/release-drafter.y*ml
git rm .github/workflows/release-drafter.y*ml
----

Also link:https://github.com/apps/release-drafter/installations/775283[remove the App from the repository] if it was configured that way.

IMPORTANT: These files may have been set up this way by the https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/[plugin archetype] that you used to initialize the plugin.

=== Configure Dependabot

NOTE: If you have link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate] configured (normally in `renovate.json` or `.github/renovate.json`) do not configure Dependabot.

If you have a `.github/dependabot.yml`, add:

[source,yaml]
----
- package-ecosystem: github-actions
  directory: /
  schedule:
    interval: monthly
----

If you did not yet have such a file, create it now:

[source,shell]
----
curl --silent --show-error --location --output .github/dependabot.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/master/common-files/.github/dependabot.yml
----

=== Update Maven POM and Config

Update the file `.mvn/maven.config` so it looks like this:

[source]
----
-Pconsume-incrementals
-Pmight-produce-incrementals
-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
----

Update the Maven `pom.xml` as described below, depending on your preferred version number format.

// Putting this here because definition lists have no indentation, making it impossible to tell this isn't part of the last item.
Once you're done with these changes, commit all of the source file changes in a branch and file a pull request for them.
Do not forget to `git add .` to make sure any newly created files are included.
Merge this PR activating CD.
Be sure to apply one of the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/ce466227c534c42820a597cb8e9cac2f2334920a/.github/release-drafter.yml#L9-L50[predefined labels]
to this and every subsequent PR before merging so that Release Drafter can properly categorize changes.

Fully automated versioning (recommended)::
For a regular component whose version number is not that meaningful, let the version number be automatically determined by setting a top-level `<version>+++${changelist}+++</version>` and having an entry `<changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>` in the `<properties>` section, removing `<revision>` and `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -7,7 +7,7 @@
-    <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+    <version>${changelist}</version>
     <packaging>hpi</packaging>
@@ -26,8 +26,7 @@
     <properties>
-        <revision>1.23</revision>
-        <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+        <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
         <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-        <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
     </properties>
----
+
In this typical case, a CI/release build (`-Dset.changelist` specified) will be of the form `123.vabcdef456789`.
A snapshot build will be `999999-SNAPSHOT`: arbitrary but treated as a snapshot by Maven and newer than any release.
You can see examples of the proposed snapshot and release versions in your case by running:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn validate
mvn validate -Dset.changelist -Dignore.dirt
----
+
IMPORTANT: Note that you will very quickly create releases with version numbers greater than 100, as the major version component corresponds to the number of commits in the branch you're releasing from.
If you're not ready to commit to all future versions of your plugin being this large, see the next option.
+
NOTE: It is worth communicating this to your users, as they will see a very different version number format than before.
The best way to do this is to add a line to the release notes: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/azure-artifact-manager-plugin/releases/tag/86.va2aa4b1038c7[example note].

Manually controlled prefix (optional)::
If you do not want to have large major version numbers, like with fully automated versioning described above, keep `<revision>` in the `<properties>` section, setting it to the prefix (`major`, `major.minor`, etc., depending on how much of the version number you want to manually manage) and use it as part of the top-level `<version>` element, removing `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -10,12 +10,12 @@
   <artifactId>some-library-wrapper</artifactId>
-  <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+  <version>${revision}.${changelist}</version>
   <packaging>hpi</packaging>
   <properties>
-    <revision>1.2.3</revision>
-    <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+    <revision>1</revision>
+    <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
     <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-    <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
----
+
Here the version numbers will look like `1.321.vabcdef456789` or `1.999999-SNAPSHOT`, respectively.
This could be appropriate if you are leery of committing up front to having major version numbers be in the triple digits,
with no option of going back to `maven-release-plugin`-style versioning except by starting at say `1000.1`,
because version numbers going forward must be mathematically larger than any currently on the update center.
+
IMPORTANT: It is _not recommended_ to implement actual semantic versioning with automated releases performed by CD, as that requires great care in always changing the `revision` as part of the changes that semantically would require a `revision` change for the next release.
Otherwise, automated releases may have version numbers that semantically would not make sense.

Versioning with wrapped components (optional)::
Similar to the previous option, for a component whose version number ought to reflect a release version of some wrapped component, use a hyphen (`-`) as the separator between the prefix corresponding to the wrapped component's version and the CD-generated suffix, removing `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -10,12 +10,12 @@
   <artifactId>some-library-wrapper</artifactId>
-  <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+  <version>${revision}-${changelist}</version>
   <packaging>hpi</packaging>
   <properties>
-    <revision>4.0.0-1.3</revision>
-    <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+    <revision>4.0.0</revision>
+    <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
     <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-    <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
----
+
Here the version numbers will look like `4.0.0-123.vabcdef456789` or `4.0.0-999999-SNAPSHOT`, respectively.
Use the `revision` property for the `<dependency>` declaration to ensure they always match:
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.elsewhere</groupId>
    <artifactId>some-lib</artifactId>
    <version>${revision}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Enable CD Permissions

Enable the continuous delivery flag in link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater/[repository permission updater] (RPU) for your plugin by filing a pull request adding to `permissions/plugin-xxx.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
cd:
  enabled: true
----

By default, this enables https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater?tab=readme-ov-file#exclusively-using-jep-229-cd[exclusive JEP-229 CD], which does not grant the listed account upload permissions.

In your PR towards the repository permission updater, include a link to the PR in your plugin, which contains all the necessary changes, like described above.

Once that has been merged, start checking `https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/settings/secrets/actions`
until you see `MAVEN_TOKEN` and `MAVEN_USERNAME` appear under *Repository secrets*.

== Releasing

If you use `cd.yaml` unchanged::
Whenever Jenkins reports a successful build of your default branch,
and at least one pull request had a label indicating it was of interest to users
(e.g., `enhancement` rather than `chore`), your component will be released to Artifactory and 
release notes published in GitHub.
You do not need any special credentials or local checkout; just merge pull requests with suitable titles and labels.
+
You will see a lot of workflow runs in the *Actions* tab in GitHub, only a small proportion of which are actual releases.
Due to technical limitations in GitHub Actions it is not possible to suppress the extraneous runs.
Actual releases will display a green check next to the *release* stage.
+
You can also trigger a deployment explicitly, if the current commit has a passing check from Jenkins.
Visit https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/actions?query=workflow%3Acd and click Run workflow.

If you changed `cd.yaml` to only run on `workflow_dispatch`::
You can trigger a release explicitly, if the current commit has a passing check from Jenkins.
Visit https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/actions?query=workflow%3Acd and click Run workflow.

== Noting incompatible changes

It is best to avoid ever making incompatible changes to your plugin.
If you must make one, then you can define `hpi.compatibleSinceVersion` as for link:../../plugin-development/mark-a-plugin-incompatible[any plugins].
If `master` is currently `123.vXXX` according to

[source,shell]
----
mvn validate -Dset.changelist
----

then you can set

[source,xml]
----
<hpi.compatibleSinceVersion>124</hpi.compatibleSinceVersion>
----

in your pull request with the breaking changes,
since the new release version will be `124.vXXX` if you squash-merge this PR,
or something higher (at least `125.vXXX`) if you true-merge it.
(It is only important that the value is greater than that of the previous actual release,
and less than or equal to that of the release containing the breaking change.)

Do not forget to mark the PR with the label `breaking` (or `removed`) to get an appropriate categorization in release notes.
(These labels also normally cause a release to be triggered automatically upon merge.)

== Fallback

If https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater?tab=readme-ov-file#exclusively-using-jep-229-cd[exclusive JEP-229 CD] is disabled for your component, you can also release manually if you have configured your machine for link:../releasing-manually[manual release].
To cut a release:

[source,shell]
----
# Checkout the primary branch of the repository.
# If your branch is not named 'main' or 'master', update it as needed.
git checkout main || git checkout master
git pull --ff-only
mvn -Dset.changelist \
  -Pquick-build \
  -P-consume-incrementals \
  -DaltDeploymentRepository=maven.jenkins-ci.org::default::https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/releases/ \
  clean deploy
----

== Troubleshooting

Check that `MAVEN_TOKEN` and `MAVEN_USERNAME` appear under Repository secrets.

=== No release has been triggered after merging a pull request

Ensure that the pull request has a label indicating it was of interest to users (e.g., `enhancement` rather than `chore`).

See the complete list of label categories at https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/.github/release-drafter.yml and the list of "interesting" categories at https://github.com/jenkins-infra/interesting-category-action/blob/main/action.yaml#L13.

You can use the `developer` label to release a pull request even if its not interesting to end users, e.g. it is a dependency of a downstream pull request or it fixes tests for Plugin Compatibility Testing.

If you add an "interesting" label on a pull request already merged then merge another pull request (even with an uninteresting label), you will get a release since the workflow will see that there has been at least one interesting pull request since the last release.

Finally, if you manually trigger the CD action and the build is passing on the primary branch, it will publish a new release regardless of any labels.

=== The upload to the Maven repository fails with "401 Unauthorized"

Unauthorized means that the credentials were invalid, or not sent by Maven.

This normally means that the secrets configured in the repository have expired, create an issue in the INFRA helpdesk on link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/new/choose[GitHub], and let the team know in #jenkins-infra on link:https://libera.chat/[Libera Chat].

Alternatively you can temporarily update the secrets yourself with your own personal credentials.

=== The upload to the Maven repository fails with "403 Forbidden"

The two most common explanations for this error are:

* You don't have permission to upload to the specified path.
  link:../requesting-hosting/#request-upload-permissions[Learn more about how to request upload permissions].
  Check that the path you're allowed to upload to matches the actual upload attempt (i.e. no typos).
* The specified release already exists and you try to overwrite it.
  We do not allow replacing existing releases.

=== Further troubleshooting help

If none of the provided solutions help, send an email to the link:/mailing-lists[Jenkins developers mailing list] and explain what you did, and how it failed.

Commit message:

Noting special character of bumps to version in lib wrapper plugin (#8118)
Co-authored-by: Kris Stern <krisstern@outlook.com>

content/doc/developer/publishing/releasing-cd.adoc, after:

---
title: Setting up plugin releases through GitHub
layout: developer
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/229/README.adoc
  title: 'JEP-229: Continuous Delivery of Jenkins Components and Plugins'
---

== Introduction

Maintainers of Jenkins plugin repositories on GitHub can opt into continuous delivery (CD).
In this mode, any successful build of the default branch (`master` or `main`) by ci.jenkins.io can result in a new plugin release.
GitHub Actions are used to rebuild the code and deploy it to Artifactory,
without the need for maintainers to use personal credentials or local builds.
Release notes are generated automatically according to pull request (PR) titles and some predefined labels.

IMPORTANT: `maven-release-plugin` (MRP) is not used in this mode.
Rather than traditional version numbers like `1.23` or `2.3.4` which are chosen by the maintainer,
a CD release will have a version of the form `123.vabcdef456789`:
an integer component determined by the Git history depth,
and an informational component with the Git commit hash.

NOTE: Push the work to prepare your plugin for CD to a dedicated branch, which you file a pull request from to your default branch.
When enabling CD, the hosting team reviews this PR containing all necessary changes in your plugin, to prevent improper releases and mistakes.
Don't push the changes directly to the default branch or merge the PR before the hosting team has reviewed it.

== Checklist

=== Incrementals Enablement

Verify that the plugin has already been link:../../plugin-development/incrementals[incrementalified].
The file `pom.xml` should contain `<version>$\{revision}$\{changelist}</version>` and the files `.mvn/extensions.xml` and `.mvn/maven.config` should exist *before proceeding with subsequent steps*.

NOTE: A new plugin created from the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/[archetypes] will already have this setup.

Here are some PR examples for various plugins to enable CD:

- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/junit-plugin/pull/395/files[junit]
- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/kubernetes-plugin/pull/1139/files[kubernetes-plugin]
- link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plain-credentials-plugin/pull/31/files[plain-credentials-plugin]

=== Configure CD Workflow

Create the CD workflow as a copy of the template:

[source,shell]
----
mkdir -p .github/workflows
curl --silent --show-error --location --output .github/workflows/cd.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/.github/master/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
git add .github/workflows/cd.yaml
----

If you want to prevent automatic releases after PRs are merged, edit the `.github/workflows/cd.yaml` and remove the `check_run` workflow trigger, leaving only `workflow_dispatch`:

[source,diff]
----
--- a/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
+++ b/workflow-templates/cd.yaml
@@ -3,9 +3,6 @@
 name: cd
 on:
   workflow_dispatch:
-  check_run:
-    types:
-      - completed

 permissions:
   checks: read
----

=== Configure Release Drafter

You can delete any existing Release Drafter configuration,
as the default is to assume link:https://github.com/probot/octokit-plugin-config/blob/fa1700ed56e2c76afb4dd618bf27e7c8a445c4d8/src/util/get-config-files.ts#L37-L51[`_extends: .github`];
and/or workflow, as that will be subsumed by the CD workflow:

[source,shell]
----
git rm .github/release-drafter.y*ml
git rm .github/workflows/release-drafter.y*ml
----

Also link:https://github.com/apps/release-drafter/installations/775283[remove the App from the repository] if it was configured that way.

IMPORTANT: These files may have been set up this way by the https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/[plugin archetype] that you used to initialize the plugin.

=== Configure Dependabot

NOTE: If you have link:https://docs.renovatebot.com/[Renovate] configured (normally in `renovate.json` or `.github/renovate.json`) do not configure Dependabot.

If you have a `.github/dependabot.yml`, add:

[source,yaml]
----
- package-ecosystem: github-actions
  directory: /
  schedule:
    interval: monthly
----

If you did not yet have such a file, create it now:

[source,shell]
----
curl --silent --show-error --location --output .github/dependabot.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/master/common-files/.github/dependabot.yml
----

=== Update Maven POM and Config

Update the file `.mvn/maven.config` so it looks like this:

[source]
----
-Pconsume-incrementals
-Pmight-produce-incrementals
-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
----

Update the Maven `pom.xml` as described below, depending on your preferred version number format.

// Putting this here because definition lists have no indentation, making it impossible to tell this isn't part of the last item.
Once you're done with these changes, commit all of the source file changes in a branch and file a pull request for them.
Do not forget to `git add .` to make sure any newly created files are included.
Merge this PR activating CD.
Be sure to apply one of the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/ce466227c534c42820a597cb8e9cac2f2334920a/.github/release-drafter.yml#L9-L50[predefined labels]
to this and every subsequent PR before merging so that Release Drafter can properly categorize changes.

Fully automated versioning (recommended)::
For a regular component whose version number is not that meaningful, let the version number be automatically determined by setting a top-level `<version>+++${changelist}+++</version>` and having an entry `<changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>` in the `<properties>` section, removing `<revision>` and `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -7,7 +7,7 @@
-    <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+    <version>${changelist}</version>
     <packaging>hpi</packaging>
@@ -26,8 +26,7 @@
     <properties>
-        <revision>1.23</revision>
-        <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+        <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
         <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-        <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
     </properties>
----
+
In this typical case, a CI/release build (`-Dset.changelist` specified) will be of the form `123.vabcdef456789`.
A snapshot build will be `999999-SNAPSHOT`: arbitrary but treated as a snapshot by Maven and newer than any release.
You can see examples of the proposed snapshot and release versions in your case by running:
+
[source,shell]
----
mvn validate
mvn validate -Dset.changelist -Dignore.dirt
----
+
IMPORTANT: Note that you will very quickly create releases with version numbers greater than 100, as the major version component corresponds to the number of commits in the branch you're releasing from.
If you're not ready to commit to all future versions of your plugin being this large, see the next option.
+
NOTE: It is worth communicating this to your users, as they will see a very different version number format than before.
The best way to do this is to add a line to the release notes: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/azure-artifact-manager-plugin/releases/tag/86.va2aa4b1038c7[example note].

Manually controlled prefix (optional)::
If you do not want to have large major version numbers, like with fully automated versioning described above, keep `<revision>` in the `<properties>` section, setting it to the prefix (`major`, `major.minor`, etc., depending on how much of the version number you want to manually manage) and use it as part of the top-level `<version>` element, removing `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -10,12 +10,12 @@
   <artifactId>some-library-wrapper</artifactId>
-  <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+  <version>${revision}.${changelist}</version>
   <packaging>hpi</packaging>
   <properties>
-    <revision>1.2.3</revision>
-    <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+    <revision>1</revision>
+    <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
     <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-    <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
----
+
Here the version numbers will look like `1.321.vabcdef456789` or `1.999999-SNAPSHOT`, respectively.
This could be appropriate if you are leery of committing up front to having major version numbers be in the triple digits,
with no option of going back to `maven-release-plugin`-style versioning except by starting at say `1000.1`,
because version numbers going forward must be mathematically larger than any currently on the update center.
+
IMPORTANT: It is _not recommended_ to implement actual semantic versioning with automated releases performed by CD, as that requires great care in always changing the `revision` as part of the changes that semantically would require a `revision` change for the next release.
Otherwise, automated releases may have version numbers that semantically would not make sense.

Versioning with wrapped components (optional)::
Similar to the previous option, for a component whose version number ought to reflect a release version of some wrapped component, use a hyphen (`-`) as the separator between the prefix corresponding to the wrapped component's version and the CD-generated suffix, removing `<project.build.outputTimestamp>` (if present):
+
[source,diff]
----
--- a/.mvn/maven.config
+++ b/.mvn/maven.config
@@ -1,2 +1,3 @@
 -Pconsume-incrementals
 -Pmight-produce-incrementals
+-Dchangelist.format=%d.v%s
--- a/pom.xml
+++ b/pom.xml
@@ -10,12 +10,12 @@
   <artifactId>some-library-wrapper</artifactId>
-  <version>${revision}${changelist}</version>
+  <version>${revision}-${changelist}</version>
   <packaging>hpi</packaging>
   <properties>
-    <revision>4.0.0-1.3</revision>
-    <changelist>-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
+    <revision>4.0.0</revision>
+    <changelist>999999-SNAPSHOT</changelist>
     <jenkins.version>2.361.4</jenkins.version>
-    <project.build.outputTimestamp>2023-01-01T00:00:00Z</project.build.outputTimestamp>
----
+
Here the version numbers will look like `4.0.0-123.vabcdef456789` or `4.0.0-999999-SNAPSHOT`, respectively.
Use the `revision` property for the `<dependency>` declaration to ensure they always match:
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.elsewhere</groupId>
    <artifactId>some-lib</artifactId>
    <version>${revision}</version>
</dependency>
----

Remember that changes to this property mean that the wrapped component has been updated, which would typically be a significant change that deserves an appropriate release-triggering label (`developer`, `enhancement`, or `bug`).
You may wish to edit your Dependabot configuration to automatically apply `developer` rather than `dependencies` for bumps to this special dependency.

=== Enable CD Permissions

Enable the continuous delivery flag in link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater/[repository permission updater] (RPU) for your plugin by filing a pull request adding to `permissions/plugin-xxx.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
cd:
  enabled: true
----

By default, this enables https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater?tab=readme-ov-file#exclusively-using-jep-229-cd[exclusive JEP-229 CD], which does not grant the listed account upload permissions.

In your PR towards the repository permission updater, include a link to the PR in your plugin, which contains all the necessary changes, like described above.

Once that has been merged, start checking `https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/settings/secrets/actions`
until you see `MAVEN_TOKEN` and `MAVEN_USERNAME` appear under *Repository secrets*.

== Releasing

If you use `cd.yaml` unchanged::
Whenever Jenkins reports a successful build of your default branch,
and at least one pull request had a label indicating it was of interest to users
(e.g., `enhancement` rather than `chore`), your component will be released to Artifactory and 
release notes published in GitHub.
You do not need any special credentials or local checkout; just merge pull requests with suitable titles and labels.
+
You will see a lot of workflow runs in the *Actions* tab in GitHub, only a small proportion of which are actual releases.
Due to technical limitations in GitHub Actions it is not possible to suppress the extraneous runs.
Actual releases will display a green check next to the *release* stage.
+
You can also trigger a deployment explicitly, if the current commit has a passing check from Jenkins.
Visit https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/actions?query=workflow%3Acd and click Run workflow.

If you changed `cd.yaml` to only run on `workflow_dispatch`::
You can trigger a release explicitly, if the current commit has a passing check from Jenkins.
Visit https://github.com/jenkinsci/your-plugin/actions?query=workflow%3Acd and click Run workflow.

== Noting incompatible changes

It is best to avoid ever making incompatible changes to your plugin.
If you must make one, then you can define `hpi.compatibleSinceVersion` as for link:../../plugin-development/mark-a-plugin-incompatible[any plugins].
If `master` is currently `123.vXXX` according to

[source,shell]
----
mvn validate -Dset.changelist
----

then you can set

[source,xml]
----
<hpi.compatibleSinceVersion>124</hpi.compatibleSinceVersion>
----

in your pull request with the breaking changes,
since the new release version will be `124.vXXX` if you squash-merge this PR,
or something higher (at least `125.vXXX`) if you true-merge it.
(It is only important that the value is greater than that of the previous actual release,
and less than or equal to that of the release containing the breaking change.)

Do not forget to mark the PR with the label `breaking` (or `removed`) to get an appropriate categorization in release notes.
(These labels also normally cause a release to be triggered automatically upon merge.)

== Fallback

If https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater?tab=readme-ov-file#exclusively-using-jep-229-cd[exclusive JEP-229 CD] is disabled for your component, you can also release manually if you have configured your machine for link:../releasing-manually[manual release].
To cut a release:

[source,shell]
----
# Checkout the primary branch of the repository.
# If your branch is not named 'main' or 'master', update it as needed.
git checkout main || git checkout master
git pull --ff-only
mvn -Dset.changelist \
  -Pquick-build \
  -P-consume-incrementals \
  -DaltDeploymentRepository=maven.jenkins-ci.org::default::https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/releases/ \
  clean deploy
----

== Troubleshooting

Check that `MAVEN_TOKEN` and `MAVEN_USERNAME` appear under Repository secrets.

=== No release has been triggered after merging a pull request

Ensure that the pull request has a label indicating it was of interest to users (e.g., `enhancement` rather than `chore`).

See the complete list of label categories at https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/.github/release-drafter.yml and the list of "interesting" categories at https://github.com/jenkins-infra/interesting-category-action/blob/main/action.yaml#L13.

You can use the `developer` label to release a pull request even if its not interesting to end users, e.g. it is a dependency of a downstream pull request or it fixes tests for Plugin Compatibility Testing.

If you add an "interesting" label on a pull request already merged then merge another pull request (even with an uninteresting label), you will get a release since the workflow will see that there has been at least one interesting pull request since the last release.

Finally, if you manually trigger the CD action and the build is passing on the primary branch, it will publish a new release regardless of any labels.

=== The upload to the Maven repository fails with "401 Unauthorized"

Unauthorized means that the credentials were invalid, or not sent by Maven.

This normally means that the secrets configured in the repository have expired, create an issue in the INFRA helpdesk on link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/helpdesk/issues/new/choose[GitHub], and let the team know in #jenkins-infra on link:https://libera.chat/[Libera Chat].

Alternatively you can temporarily update the secrets yourself with your own personal credentials.

=== The upload to the Maven repository fails with "403 Forbidden"

The two most common explanations for this error are:

* You don't have permission to upload to the specified path.
  link:../requesting-hosting/#request-upload-permissions[Learn more about how to request upload permissions].
  Check that the path you're allowed to upload to matches the actual upload attempt (i.e. no typos).
* The specified release already exists and you try to overwrite it.
  We do not allow replacing existing releases.

=== Further troubleshooting help

If none of the provided solutions help, send an email to the link:/mailing-lists[Jenkins developers mailing list] and explain what you did, and how it failed.
