content/doc/book/system-administration/backing-up.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Backing-up/Restoring Jenkins

Having good backups of your Jenkins instance is critically important.
Backups are used for:

* Disaster recovery.
* Recovering an older configuration (an accidental configuration change may not be discovered for some time).
* Recovering a file that is corrupted or was deleted accidentally.

This page discusses the following:

* How to create a backup
* Files that should be backed up
* How to validate a backup to ensure that it is usable

== Creating a Backup

Various schemes can be used to create backups.
These are discussed in this section:

* Filesystem snapshots
* Plugins for backup
* Write a shell script that backs up the Jenkins instance

=== Filesystem snapshots

Filesystem snapshots provide maximum consistency for backups.
They also run faster than live backups,
reducing the possibility of copying different data at different time points.
They are supported by:

* The Linux Logical Volume Manager (LVM)
* Linux btrfs
* Solaris ZFS (which also supports incremental backups)
* FreeBSD ZFS
* OpenZFS on Linux
* Some other file system architectures
* Many cloud providers
* Some separate storage devices also let you create snapshots at the storage level.

=== Plugins for backup

Several plugins are available for backup.
From the main menu select _Manage Jenkins_, then go to _Plugins>Available_ and search for **backup**.
Note that only the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/thinBackup/[thinBackup Plugin] of the open source plugins is currently being maintained.
You can try the other plugins but you may have problems with them.

=== Writing a shell script for backups

You can write your own shell script that copies the appropriate files and directories to a backup location.
Use link:https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/cron.8.html[cron]
to schedule when the backup script runs.

The shell script should create a directory such as `/mnt/backup`
to which the backup will be written;
be sure that you have write permissions to that directory.
Consider creating `/mnt/backup` as a separate filesystem with its own mount point.
An alternative method is to create a subdirectory in `/var`.
Note that if you use this method,
you might need to use the **sudo** command to execute the restore operation.
Backing up to `/tmp` is not advised because `/tmp` may be cleaned on reboot.

Create a unique identifier for each backup (use a timestamp, for example)
to ensure that today's backup does not overwrite yesterday's backup.

Writing files to a local file system is the fastest way to take the backup.
Consider copying the completed backup to a remote backup server or device for long term storage.

== Back up the Controller Key Separately

*Never include the controller key in your Jenkins backup!*

The controller key is used to encrypt data in the _secrets_ directory that secures credentials.
It is stored in the _$JENKINS_HOME/secrets/hudson.util.Secret_ file
in the _$JENKINS_HOME/secrets/_ directory and encrypted with `master.key`.
If you need to restore a system from a backup, you will need this file.
And, if someone else accesses your backups and has this key, they have full access to all your information.

You should treat your controller key like you treat your SSH private key and NEVER include it in a regular backup.
Instead, back up the `master.key` file separately and store it in a very secure location away from your other backups.
It is a very small file that is seldom changed.
If you need to do a full system restore, you will need to restore the rest of the system and then apply the backup of the `master.key` file separately.

== Which Files Should Be Backed Up?

The number of files you back up can affect both the time required to run the backup and the size of the resulting backup.
It also impacts the complexity of restoring the system from the backup.
Here we discuss why various files should be backed up
and list some files that could safely be excluded from at least some backups.

=== $JENKINS_HOME

Backing up the entire `$JENKINS_HOME` directory
preserves the entire Jenkins instance.
To restore the system, just copy the entire backup to the new system.

Note, however, that `JENKINS_HOME` includes a number of files that do not really need to be backed up.
Selecting specific directories and files to back up yields smaller backups
but may require a greater effort to restore a system.
One approach is to back up different directories on different schedules.

=== Configuration files

Configuration files are stored directly in the `$JENKINS_HOME` directory.
`./config.xml` is the main Jenkins configuration file.
Other configuration files also have the `.xml` suffix.
Specify `$JENKINS_HOME/*.xml` to back up all configuration files.

Configuration files can also be stored in an SCM repository.
This keeps copies of all previous versions of each file
that can be retrieved using standard SCM facilities.

=== ./jobs Subdirectory

The `$JENKINS_HOME/jobs` directory contains information related
to all the jobs you create in Jenkins.

* **./builds** -- Contains build records

* **./builds/archive** -- Contains archived artifacts
** Back this up if it is important to retain these artifacts long-term
** These can be very large and may make your backups very large

* **./workspace** -- Contains files checked out from the SCM
** It is usually not necessary to back up these files. You can perform a clean checkout after restoring the system.

* **./plugins/*.hpi** -- Plugin packages with specific versions used on your system

* **./plugins/*.jpi** -- Plugin packages with specific versions used on your system

=== What may not need to be backed up

The following files and directories
do not usually need to be included in every routine backup
because you can download the latest version when you are restoring a system.
However, some disaster recovery experts recommend against doing any upgrades
while restoring the system,
to avoid delays caused by compatibility issues that might arise.
If your disaster recovery plan specifies that you restore the system
using the same software versions that were previously running,
you can make an infrequent backup of the system and all downloaded tools
and use that to restore the system..

* **./war** -- Exploded `war` file
** To restore a system, download the latest `war` file.

* **./cache** -- Downloaded tools
** To restore a system, download the current version of the tools.

* **./tools** -- Extracted tools
** To restore a system, extract the tools again.

* **./plugins/xxx** -- Subdirectories of installed plugins
** These will be automatically populated on the next restart.

== Validating a backup

Your backup strategy should include validation of each backup.
You do not want to learn that your backup is no good when you need it!

A simple way to validate a full backup is to restore it to a temporary location.
Create a directory for the test validation (such as **/mnt/backup-test**)
and restore the backup to that directory.

Set $JENKINS_HOME to point to this directory,
specifying a random HTTP port so you do not collide with the real Jenkins instance:

[source,bash]
----
export JENKINS_HOME=/mnt/backup-test
----

Now execute the restored Jenkins instance:

[source,bash]
----
java -jar jenkins.war --httpPort=9999
----

== Summary

* Making backups is a Jenkins best practice.
* Backups are critical for disaster recovery.
* Always set up a backup policy that defines:
** The configurations and records that need to be saved from the controller
** How often backups should be taken
** Where backups should be stored
* Validate your backups.
** You should periodically check whether your backups are intact
and can be used to meet your recovery objectives.

== Going further

Some recommended readings on this subject:

* link:https://www.cloudbees.com/blog/why-smart-efficient-backup-and-restore-techniques-are-essential-jenkins-production-server[Why Smart, Efficient Backup and Restore Techniques are Essential with Jenkins Production Server]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/backup/[Backup Plugin]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/thinBackup/[thinBackup Plugin]

Commit message:

Update to remove usage of "jenkins instance" in System Adminstration documentation (#7474)
Update "instance" usage in system admin docs

content/doc/book/system-administration/backing-up.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Backing-up/Restoring Jenkins

Having good backups of your Jenkins controller is critically important.
Backups are used for:

* Disaster recovery.
* Recovering an older configuration (an accidental configuration change may not be discovered for some time).
* Recovering a file that is corrupted or was deleted accidentally.

This page discusses the following:

* How to create a backup
* Files that should be backed up
* How to validate a backup to ensure that it is usable

== Creating a Backup

Various schemes can be used to create backups.
These are discussed in this section:

* Filesystem snapshots
* Plugins for backup
* Write a shell script that backs up the Jenkins controller

=== Filesystem snapshots

Filesystem snapshots provide maximum consistency for backups.
They also run faster than live backups,
reducing the possibility of copying different data at different time points.
They are supported by:

* The Linux Logical Volume Manager (LVM)
* Linux btrfs
* Solaris ZFS (which also supports incremental backups)
* FreeBSD ZFS
* OpenZFS on Linux
* Some other file system architectures
* Many cloud providers
* Some separate storage devices also let you create snapshots at the storage level.

=== Plugins for backup

Several plugins are available for backup.
From the main menu select _Manage Jenkins_, then go to _Plugins>Available_ and search for **backup**.
Note that only the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/thinBackup/[thinBackup Plugin] of the open source plugins is currently being maintained.
You can try the other plugins but you may have problems with them.

=== Writing a shell script for backups

You can write your own shell script that copies the appropriate files and directories to a backup location.
Use link:https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/cron.8.html[cron]
to schedule when the backup script runs.

The shell script should create a directory such as `/mnt/backup`
to which the backup will be written;
be sure that you have write permissions to that directory.
Consider creating `/mnt/backup` as a separate filesystem with its own mount point.
An alternative method is to create a subdirectory in `/var`.
Note that if you use this method,
you might need to use the **sudo** command to execute the restore operation.
Backing up to `/tmp` is not advised because `/tmp` may be cleaned on reboot.

Create a unique identifier for each backup (use a timestamp, for example)
to ensure that today's backup does not overwrite yesterday's backup.

Writing files to a local file system is the fastest way to take the backup.
Consider copying the completed backup to a remote backup server or device for long term storage.

== Back up the Controller Key Separately

*Never include the controller key in your Jenkins backup!*

The controller key is used to encrypt data in the _secrets_ directory that secures credentials.
It is stored in the _$JENKINS_HOME/secrets/hudson.util.Secret_ file
in the _$JENKINS_HOME/secrets/_ directory and encrypted with `master.key`.
If you need to restore a system from a backup, you will need this file.
And, if someone else accesses your backups and has this key, they have full access to all your information.

You should treat your controller key like you treat your SSH private key and NEVER include it in a regular backup.
Instead, back up the `master.key` file separately and store it in a very secure location away from your other backups.
It is a very small file that is seldom changed.
If you need to do a full system restore, you will need to restore the rest of the system and then apply the backup of the `master.key` file separately.

== Which Files Should Be Backed Up?

The number of files you back up can affect both the time required to run the backup and the size of the resulting backup.
It also impacts the complexity of restoring the system from the backup.
Here we discuss why various files should be backed up
and list some files that could safely be excluded from at least some backups.

=== $JENKINS_HOME

Backing up the entire `$JENKINS_HOME` directory
preserves the entire Jenkins controller.
To restore the system, just copy the entire backup to the new system.

Note, however, that `JENKINS_HOME` includes a number of files that do not really need to be backed up.
Selecting specific directories and files to back up yields smaller backups
but may require a greater effort to restore a system.
One approach is to back up different directories on different schedules.

=== Configuration files

Configuration files are stored directly in the `$JENKINS_HOME` directory.
`./config.xml` is the main Jenkins configuration file.
Other configuration files also have the `.xml` suffix.
Specify `$JENKINS_HOME/*.xml` to back up all configuration files.

Configuration files can also be stored in an SCM repository.
This keeps copies of all previous versions of each file
that can be retrieved using standard SCM facilities.

=== ./jobs Subdirectory

The `$JENKINS_HOME/jobs` directory contains information related
to all the jobs you create in Jenkins.

* **./builds** -- Contains build records

* **./builds/archive** -- Contains archived artifacts
** Back this up if it is important to retain these artifacts long-term
** These can be very large and may make your backups very large

* **./workspace** -- Contains files checked out from the SCM
** It is usually not necessary to back up these files. You can perform a clean checkout after restoring the system.

* **./plugins/*.hpi** -- Plugin packages with specific versions used on your system

* **./plugins/*.jpi** -- Plugin packages with specific versions used on your system

=== What may not need to be backed up

The following files and directories
do not usually need to be included in every routine backup
because you can download the latest version when you are restoring a system.
However, some disaster recovery experts recommend against doing any upgrades
while restoring the system,
to avoid delays caused by compatibility issues that might arise.
If your disaster recovery plan specifies that you restore the system
using the same software versions that were previously running,
you can make an infrequent backup of the system and all downloaded tools
and use that to restore the system..

* **./war** -- Exploded `war` file
** To restore a system, download the latest `war` file.

* **./cache** -- Downloaded tools
** To restore a system, download the current version of the tools.

* **./tools** -- Extracted tools
** To restore a system, extract the tools again.

* **./plugins/xxx** -- Subdirectories of installed plugins
** These will be automatically populated on the next restart.

== Validating a backup

Your backup strategy should include validation of each backup.
You do not want to learn that your backup is no good when you need it!

A simple way to validate a full backup is to restore it to a temporary location.
Create a directory for the test validation (such as **/mnt/backup-test**)
and restore the backup to that directory.

Set $JENKINS_HOME to point to this directory,
specifying a random HTTP port so you do not collide with the real Jenkins controller:

[source,bash]
----
export JENKINS_HOME=/mnt/backup-test
----

Now execute the restored Jenkins controller:

[source,bash]
----
java -jar jenkins.war --httpPort=9999
----

== Summary

* Making backups is a Jenkins best practice.
* Backups are critical for disaster recovery.
* Always set up a backup policy that defines:
** The configurations and records that need to be saved from the controller
** How often backups should be taken
** Where backups should be stored
* Validate your backups.
** You should periodically check whether your backups are intact
and can be used to meet your recovery objectives.

== Going further

Some recommended readings on this subject:

* link:https://www.cloudbees.com/blog/why-smart-efficient-backup-and-restore-techniques-are-essential-jenkins-production-server[Why Smart, Efficient Backup and Restore Techniques are Essential with Jenkins Production Server]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/backup/[Backup Plugin]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/thinBackup/[thinBackup Plugin]
