content/doc/book/pipeline/development.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Development Tools
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
ifdef::basebackend-dockbook[:imagesdir: doc/book/resources]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
// :pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
:pipeline-creation-admonition: true

= Pipeline Development Tools

Jenkins Pipeline includes
<<getting-started#built-in-documentation, built-in documentation>> and the
<<getting-started#snippet-generator, Snippet Generator>> which are key resources
when developing Pipelines. They provide detailed help and information that is customized
to the currently installed version of Jenkins and related plugins.
In this section, we'll discuss other tools and resources
that may help with development of Jenkins Pipelines.

[[linter]]
== Command-line Pipeline Linter

Jenkins can validate, or
"link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software)[lint]",
a Declarative Pipeline from the command line before actually running it.
This can be done using a Jenkins CLI command or by making an
HTTP POST
request with appropriate parameters.
We recommended using the
<<../managing/cli#ssh, SSH interface>>
to run the linter. See the <<../managing/cli#, Jenkins CLI documentation>> for details on how to properly configure
Jenkins for secure command-line access.

.Linting via the CLI with SSH
[source,bash]
----
# ssh (Jenkins CLI)
# JENKINS_PORT=[sshd port on controller]
# JENKINS_HOST=[Jenkins controller hostname]
ssh -p $JENKINS_PORT $JENKINS_HOST declarative-linter < Jenkinsfile
----

.Linting via HTTP POST using `curl`
[source,bash]
----
# curl (REST API)
# These instructions assume that the security realm of Jenkins is something other than "None" and you have an account.
# JENKINS_URL=[root URL of Jenkins controller]
# JENKINS_AUTH=[your Jenkins username and an API token in the following format: your_username:api_token]
curl -X POST --user "$JENKINS_AUTH" -F "jenkinsfile=<Jenkinsfile" "$JENKINS_URL/pipeline-model-converter/validate"
----

=== Examples

Below are two examples of the Pipeline Linter in action.
This first example shows the output of the linter when it is passed
an invalid `Jenkinsfile`, one that is missing part of the `agent` declaration.

.Jenkinsfile
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
  agent
  stages {
    stage ('Initialize') {
      steps {
        echo 'Placeholder.'
      }
    }
  }
}
----

.Linter output for invalid Jenkinsfile
[source,bash]
----
# pass a Jenkinsfile that does not contain an "agent" section
ssh -p 8675 localhost declarative-linter < ./Jenkinsfile
Errors encountered validating Jenkinsfile:
WorkflowScript: 2: Not a valid section definition: "agent". Some extra configuration is required. @ line 2, column 3.
     agent
     ^

WorkflowScript: 1: Missing required section "agent" @ line 1, column 1.
   pipeline &#125;
   ^
----

In this second example, the `Jenkinsfile` has been updated to include the
missing `any` on `agent`.  The linter now reports that the Pipeline is valid.

.Jenkinsfile
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
  agent any
  stages {
    stage ('Initialize') {
      steps {
        echo 'Placeholder.'
      }
    }
  }
}
----

.Linter output for valid Jenkinsfile
[source,bash]
----
ssh -p 8675 localhost declarative-linter < ./Jenkinsfile
Jenkinsfile successfully validated.
----

== Blue Ocean Editor

The <<../blueocean/pipeline-editor#, Blue Ocean Pipeline Editor>> provides a link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG[WYSIWYG] way to create Declarative Pipelines.
The editor offers a structural view of all the stages, parallel branches, and steps in a Pipeline.
The editor validates Pipeline changes as they are made, eliminating many errors before they are even committed.  
Behind the scenes it still generates Declarative Pipeline code.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

[[replay]]
== "Replay" Pipeline Runs with Modifications

Typically a Pipeline will be defined inside of the classic Jenkins web UI,
or by committing to a `Jenkinsfile` in source control. Unfortunately,
neither approach is ideal for rapid iteration, or prototyping, of a Pipeline.
The "Replay" feature allows for quick modifications and execution of an existing
Pipeline without changing the Pipeline configuration or creating a new commit.

=== Usage

To use the "Replay" feature:

. Select a previously completed run in the build history.
+
image::pipeline/replay-previous-run.png[Previous Pipeline Run]
+
. Click "Replay" in the left menu
+
image::pipeline/replay-left-bar.png[Replay Left-menu Button]
+
. Make modifications and click "Run". In this example, we changed "ruby-2.3" to "ruby-2.4".
+
image::pipeline/replay-modified.png[Replay Left-menu Button]
+
. Check the results of changes

Once you are satisfied with the changes,
you can use Replay to view them again, copy them back to your Pipeline job
or `Jenkinsfile`, and then commit them using your usual engineering processes.

=== Features

* *Can be called multiple times on the same run* -
allows for easy parallel testing of different changes.
* *Can also be called on Pipeline runs that are still in-progress* -
As long as a Pipeline contained syntactically correct Groovy and was able to start,
it can be Replayed.
* *Referenced Shared Library code is also modifiable* - If a Pipeline run references a
<<shared-libraries#, Shared Library>>, the code from the shared library will
also be shown and modifiable as part of the Replay page.
* *Access Control via dedicated "Run / Replay" permission* -
implied by "Job / Configure". If Pipeline is not configurable (e.g. Branch Pipeline of a Multibranch) or "Job / Configure" is not granted, users still can experiment with Pipeline Definition via Replay
* *Can be used for Re-run* -
users lacking "Run / Replay" but who are granted "Job / Build" can still use Replay to run a build again with the same definition.
*Note*: The label switches to "Rebuild" in that case.

=== Limitations

* *Pipeline runs with syntax errors cannot be replayed* -
meaning their code cannot be viewed and any changes made in them cannot be retrieved.
When using Replay for more significant modifications, save your changes
to a file or editor outside of Jenkins before running them.
See link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-37589[JENKINS-37589]
* *Replayed Pipeline behavior may differ from runs started by other methods* -
For Pipelines that are not part of a Multi-branch Pipeline,
the commit information may differ for the original run and the Replayed run.
See link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-36453[JENKINS-36453]

== IDE Integrations

=== Eclipse Jenkins Editor
The `Jenkins Editor` Eclipse plugin can be found on
link:https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/jenkins-editor[Eclipse Marketplace].
This special text editor provides some features for defining pipelines e.g:

- Validate pipeline scripts by <<#linter,Jenkins Linter Validation>>. Failures are shown as eclipse markers
- An Outline with dedicated icons (for declarative Jenkins pipelines )
- Syntax / keyword highlighting
- Groovy validation

NOTE: The Jenkins Editor Plugin is a third-party tool that is not supported
by the Jenkins Project.

=== VisualStudio Code Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector

The `Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector` extension for
link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[VisualStudio Code]
takes the file that you have currently opened, pushes it to your Jenkins Server and displays the validation result in VS Code.

​You can find the extension from within the VS Code extension browser or at the following url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=janjoerke.jenkins-pipeline-linter-connector

The extension adds four settings entries to VS Code which select the Jenkins server you want to use for validation.

* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.url` is the endpoint at which your Jenkins Server expects the POST request, containing your Jenkinsfile which you want to validate. Typically this points to __http://<your_jenkins_server:port>/pipeline-model-converter/validate__.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.user` allows you to specify your Jenkins username.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.pass` allows you to specify your Jenkins password.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.crumbUrl` has to be specified if your Jenkins Server has CRSF protection enabled. Typically this points to __http://<your_jenkins_server:port>/crumbIssuer/api/xml?xpath=concat(//crumbRequestField,%22:%22,//crumb)__.

=== Neovim nvim-jenkinsfile-linter plugin

The link:https://github.com/ckipp01/nvim-jenkinsfile-linter[nvim-jenkinsfile-linter]
Neovim plugin allows you to validate a Jenkinsfile by using the Pipeline Linter API
of your Jenkins controller and report any existing diagnostics in your editor.

=== Atom linter-jenkins package

The link:https://atom.io/packages/linter-jenkins[linter-jenkins] Atom package allows 
you to validate a Jenkins file by using the Pipeline Linter API of a running Jenkins. 
You can install it directly from the Atom package manager. It needs also to install 
link:https://atom.io/packages/language-jenkinsfile[Jenkinsfile language support in Atom]

=== Sublime Text Jenkinsfile package

The link:https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile[Jenkinsfile] Sublime Text package allows 
you to validate a Jenkinsfile by using the Pipeline Linter API of a running Jenkins controller over
a secure channel (SSH).  You can install it directly from the Sublime Text package manager.

​You can find the package from within the Sublime Text interface via the Package Control package, at GitHub, or packagecontrol.io:

* link:https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile[https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile]
* link:https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Jenkinsfile[https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Jenkinsfile]

[[unit-test]]
== Pipeline Unit Testing Framework

The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/JenkinsPipelineUnit[Pipeline Unit Testing Framework]
allows you to
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing[unit test]
Pipelines and <<shared-libraries#, Shared Libraries>>
before running them in full. It provides a mock execution environment where real
Pipeline steps are replaced with mock objects that you can use to check for expected
behavior. New and rough around the edges, but promising.
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/JenkinsPipelineUnit/blob/master/README.md[README]
for that project contains examples and usage instructions.

Commit message:

Development Tools page images and alt text updated - pipeline builds, replay sidebar, replay script modified. Associated text updated.

content/doc/book/pipeline/development.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Pipeline Development Tools
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
ifdef::basebackend-dockbook[:imagesdir: doc/book/resources]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
// :pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
:pipeline-creation-admonition: true

= Pipeline Development Tools

Jenkins Pipeline includes
<<getting-started#built-in-documentation, built-in documentation>> and the
<<getting-started#snippet-generator, Snippet Generator>> which are key resources
when developing Pipelines. They provide detailed help and information that is customized
to the currently installed version of Jenkins and related plugins.
In this section, we'll discuss other tools and resources
that may help with development of Jenkins Pipelines.

[[linter]]
== Command-line Pipeline Linter

Jenkins can validate, or
"link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software)[lint]",
a Declarative Pipeline from the command line before actually running it.
This can be done using a Jenkins CLI command or by making an
HTTP POST
request with appropriate parameters.
We recommended using the
<<../managing/cli#ssh, SSH interface>>
to run the linter. See the <<../managing/cli#, Jenkins CLI documentation>> for details on how to properly configure
Jenkins for secure command-line access.

.Linting via the CLI with SSH
[source,bash]
----
# ssh (Jenkins CLI)
# JENKINS_PORT=[sshd port on controller]
# JENKINS_HOST=[Jenkins controller hostname]
ssh -p $JENKINS_PORT $JENKINS_HOST declarative-linter < Jenkinsfile
----

.Linting via HTTP POST using `curl`
[source,bash]
----
# curl (REST API)
# These instructions assume that the security realm of Jenkins is something other than "None" and you have an account.
# JENKINS_URL=[root URL of Jenkins controller]
# JENKINS_AUTH=[your Jenkins username and an API token in the following format: your_username:api_token]
curl -X POST --user "$JENKINS_AUTH" -F "jenkinsfile=<Jenkinsfile" "$JENKINS_URL/pipeline-model-converter/validate"
----

=== Examples

Below are two examples of the Pipeline Linter in action.
This first example shows the output of the linter when it is passed
an invalid `Jenkinsfile`, one that is missing part of the `agent` declaration.

.Jenkinsfile
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
  agent
  stages {
    stage ('Initialize') {
      steps {
        echo 'Placeholder.'
      }
    }
  }
}
----

.Linter output for invalid Jenkinsfile
[source,bash]
----
# pass a Jenkinsfile that does not contain an "agent" section
ssh -p 8675 localhost declarative-linter < ./Jenkinsfile
Errors encountered validating Jenkinsfile:
WorkflowScript: 2: Not a valid section definition: "agent". Some extra configuration is required. @ line 2, column 3.
     agent
     ^

WorkflowScript: 1: Missing required section "agent" @ line 1, column 1.
   pipeline &#125;
   ^
----

In this second example, the `Jenkinsfile` has been updated to include the
missing `any` on `agent`.  The linter now reports that the Pipeline is valid.

.Jenkinsfile
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
  agent any
  stages {
    stage ('Initialize') {
      steps {
        echo 'Placeholder.'
      }
    }
  }
}
----

.Linter output for valid Jenkinsfile
[source,bash]
----
ssh -p 8675 localhost declarative-linter < ./Jenkinsfile
Jenkinsfile successfully validated.
----

== Blue Ocean Editor

The <<../blueocean/pipeline-editor#, Blue Ocean Pipeline Editor>> provides a link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG[WYSIWYG] way to create Declarative Pipelines.
The editor offers a structural view of all the stages, parallel branches, and steps in a Pipeline.
The editor validates Pipeline changes as they are made, eliminating many errors before they are even committed.  
Behind the scenes it still generates Declarative Pipeline code.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

[[replay]]
== "Replay" Pipeline Runs with Modifications

Typically a Pipeline will be defined inside of the classic Jenkins web UI,
or by committing to a `Jenkinsfile` in source control. Unfortunately,
neither approach is ideal for rapid iteration, or prototyping, of a Pipeline.
The "Replay" feature allows for quick modifications and execution of an existing
Pipeline without changing the Pipeline configuration or creating a new commit.

=== Usage

To use the "Replay" feature:

. Select a previously completed run in the build history.
+
image::pipeline/replay-previous-run.png[alt = "Build history section of a Jenkins Pipeline showing all the previously executed builds. The history includes: Build #2 and Build #3, which ran successfully; Build #4 and Build #5, which failed; and Build #6, which ran successfully. Click on the latest successful build, which is Build #6 in this case."]
+
. Click "Replay" in the left menu.
+
image::pipeline/replay-left-bar.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI sidebar for 'example-pipeline' build #6 showing options: Status, Changes, Console Output, Edit Build Information, Delete Build #6, Timings, Pipeline Overview, Pipeline Console, Restart from Stage, Replay, Pipeline Steps, Workspaces, and Previous Build."]
+
. Make modifications and click "Run". In this example, we changed "ruby-2.3" to "ruby-2.4".
+
image::pipeline/replay-modified.png[alt = "The replay section of the Jenkins 'example-pipeline' for build #6 displays the pipeline script, where the Ruby version has been changed from 2.3 to 2.4. A 'Pipeline Syntax' option and a blue 'Run' button is shown below the script."]
+
. Check the results of changes.

Once you are satisfied with the changes,
you can use Replay to view them again, copy them back to your Pipeline job
or `Jenkinsfile`, and then commit them using your usual engineering processes.

=== Features

* *Can be called multiple times on the same run* -
allows for easy parallel testing of different changes.
* *Can also be called on Pipeline runs that are still in-progress* -
As long as a Pipeline contained syntactically correct Groovy and was able to start,
it can be Replayed.
* *Referenced Shared Library code is also modifiable* - If a Pipeline run references a
<<shared-libraries#, Shared Library>>, the code from the shared library will
also be shown and modifiable as part of the Replay page.
* *Access Control via dedicated "Run / Replay" permission* -
implied by "Job / Configure". If Pipeline is not configurable (e.g. Branch Pipeline of a Multibranch) or "Job / Configure" is not granted, users still can experiment with Pipeline Definition via Replay
* *Can be used for Re-run* -
users lacking "Run / Replay" but who are granted "Job / Build" can still use Replay to run a build again with the same definition.
*Note*: The label switches to "Rebuild" in that case.

=== Limitations

* *Pipeline runs with syntax errors cannot be replayed* -
meaning their code cannot be viewed and any changes made in them cannot be retrieved.
When using Replay for more significant modifications, save your changes
to a file or editor outside of Jenkins before running them.
See link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-37589[JENKINS-37589]
* *Replayed Pipeline behavior may differ from runs started by other methods* -
For Pipelines that are not part of a Multi-branch Pipeline,
the commit information may differ for the original run and the Replayed run.
See link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-36453[JENKINS-36453]

== IDE Integrations

=== Eclipse Jenkins Editor
The `Jenkins Editor` Eclipse plugin can be found on
link:https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/jenkins-editor[Eclipse Marketplace].
This special text editor provides some features for defining pipelines e.g:

- Validate pipeline scripts by <<#linter,Jenkins Linter Validation>>. Failures are shown as eclipse markers
- An Outline with dedicated icons (for declarative Jenkins pipelines )
- Syntax / keyword highlighting
- Groovy validation

NOTE: The Jenkins Editor Plugin is a third-party tool that is not supported
by the Jenkins Project.

=== VisualStudio Code Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector

The `Jenkins Pipeline Linter Connector` extension for
link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[VisualStudio Code]
takes the file that you have currently opened, pushes it to your Jenkins Server and displays the validation result in VS Code.

​You can find the extension from within the VS Code extension browser or at the following url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=janjoerke.jenkins-pipeline-linter-connector

The extension adds four settings entries to VS Code which select the Jenkins server you want to use for validation.

* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.url` is the endpoint at which your Jenkins Server expects the POST request, containing your Jenkinsfile which you want to validate. Typically this points to __http://<your_jenkins_server:port>/pipeline-model-converter/validate__.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.user` allows you to specify your Jenkins username.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.pass` allows you to specify your Jenkins password.
* `jenkins.pipeline.linter.connector.crumbUrl` has to be specified if your Jenkins Server has CRSF protection enabled. Typically this points to __http://<your_jenkins_server:port>/crumbIssuer/api/xml?xpath=concat(//crumbRequestField,%22:%22,//crumb)__.

=== Neovim nvim-jenkinsfile-linter plugin

The link:https://github.com/ckipp01/nvim-jenkinsfile-linter[nvim-jenkinsfile-linter]
Neovim plugin allows you to validate a Jenkinsfile by using the Pipeline Linter API
of your Jenkins controller and report any existing diagnostics in your editor.

=== Atom linter-jenkins package

The link:https://atom.io/packages/linter-jenkins[linter-jenkins] Atom package allows 
you to validate a Jenkins file by using the Pipeline Linter API of a running Jenkins. 
You can install it directly from the Atom package manager. It needs also to install 
link:https://atom.io/packages/language-jenkinsfile[Jenkinsfile language support in Atom]

=== Sublime Text Jenkinsfile package

The link:https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile[Jenkinsfile] Sublime Text package allows 
you to validate a Jenkinsfile by using the Pipeline Linter API of a running Jenkins controller over
a secure channel (SSH).  You can install it directly from the Sublime Text package manager.

​You can find the package from within the Sublime Text interface via the Package Control package, at GitHub, or packagecontrol.io:

* link:https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile[https://github.com/june07/sublime-Jenkinsfile]
* link:https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Jenkinsfile[https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Jenkinsfile]

[[unit-test]]
== Pipeline Unit Testing Framework

The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/JenkinsPipelineUnit[Pipeline Unit Testing Framework]
allows you to
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing[unit test]
Pipelines and <<shared-libraries#, Shared Libraries>>
before running them in full. It provides a mock execution environment where real
Pipeline steps are replaced with mock objects that you can use to check for expected
behavior. New and rough around the edges, but promising.
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/JenkinsPipelineUnit/blob/master/README.md[README]
for that project contains examples and usage instructions.
