content/doc/book/pipeline/getting-started.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Getting started with Pipeline
---

ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
// :pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
:pipeline-creation-admonition: true

= Getting started with Pipeline

As mentioned link:../[previously], Jenkins Pipeline is a suite of
plugins that supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines
into Jenkins. Pipeline provides an extensible set of tools for modeling
simple-to-complex delivery pipelines "as code" via the Pipeline DSL.
footnote:dsl[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language[Domain-specific language]]

This section describes how to get started with creating your Pipeline project in
Jenkins and introduces you to the various ways that a `Jenkinsfile` can be
created and stored.


== Prerequisites

To use Jenkins Pipeline, you will need:

* Jenkins 2.x or later (older versions back to 1.642.3 may work but are not
  recommended)
* Pipeline plugin,
  footnote:pipeline[link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/workflow-aggregator[Pipeline plugin]]
  which is installed as part of the "suggested plugins" (specified when running
  through the link:../../installing/linux/#setup-wizard[Post-installation setup wizard]
  after link:../../installing[installing Jenkins]).

Read more about how to install and manage plugins in
link:../../managing/plugins[Managing Plugins].


== Defining a Pipeline

Both
link:../#declarative-versus-scripted-pipeline-syntax[Declarative and Scripted Pipeline]
are DSLs footnote:dsl[] to describe portions of your software delivery
pipeline. Scripted Pipeline is written in a limited form of
link:http://groovy-lang.org/semantics.html[Groovy syntax].

Relevant components of Groovy syntax will be introduced as required throughout
this documentation, so while an understanding of Groovy is helpful, it is not
required to work with Pipeline.

A Pipeline can be created in one of the following ways:

* <<through-blue-ocean>> - after setting up a Pipeline project in Blue Ocean,
  the Blue Ocean UI helps you write your Pipeline's `Jenkinsfile` and commit it
  to source control.
* <<through-the-classic-ui>> - you can enter a basic Pipeline directly in
  Jenkins through the classic UI.
* link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[In SCM] - you can write a `Jenkinsfile`
  manually, which you can commit to your project's source control repository.
  footnote:scm[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control[Source control management]]

The syntax for defining a Pipeline with either approach is the same, but while
Jenkins supports entering Pipeline directly into the classic UI, it is
generally considered best practice to define the Pipeline in a `Jenkinsfile`
which Jenkins will then load directly from source control.

This video provides basic instructions on how to write both Declarative and Scripted Pipelines.

.Writing a Pipeline script in Jenkins
video::TiTrcFEsj7A[youtube,width=800,height=420]

=== Through Blue Ocean

If you are new to Jenkins Pipeline, the Blue Ocean UI helps you
link:../../blueocean/creating-pipelines[set up your Pipeline project], and
automatically creates and writes your Pipeline (i.e. the `Jenkinsfile`) for you
through the graphical Pipeline editor.

As part of setting up your Pipeline project in Blue Ocean, Jenkins configures a
secure and appropriately authenticated connection to your project's source
control repository. Therefore, any changes you make to the `Jenkinsfile` via
Blue Ocean's Pipeline editor are automatically saved and committed to source
control.

Read more about Blue Ocean in the link:../../blueocean[Blue Ocean] chapter and
link:../../blueocean/getting-started[Getting started with Blue Ocean] page.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

=== Through the classic UI

A `Jenkinsfile` created using the classic UI is stored by Jenkins itself (within
the Jenkins home directory).

To create a basic Pipeline through the Jenkins classic UI:

. If required, ensure you are logged in to Jenkins.
. From the Jenkins home page (i.e. the Dashboard of the Jenkins classic UI),
  click *New Item* at the top left.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column.png[alt="Classic UI left column",width=30%]
. In the *Enter an item name* field, specify the name for your new Pipeline
  project. +
  *Caution:* Jenkins uses this item name to create directories on disk. It is
  recommended to avoid using spaces in item names, since doing so may uncover
  bugs in scripts that do not properly handle spaces in directory paths.
. Scroll down and click *Pipeline*, then click *OK* at the end of the page to
  open the Pipeline configuration page (whose *General* tab is selected).
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/new-item-creation.png[alt="Enter a name, click *Pipeline* and then click *OK*",width=100%]
. Click the *Pipeline* tab at the top of the page to scroll down to the
  *Pipeline* section. +
  *Note:* If instead you are defining your `Jenkinsfile` in source control,
  follow the instructions in link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[In SCM] below.
. In the *Pipeline* section, ensure that the *Definition* field indicates the
  *Pipeline script* option.
. Enter your Pipeline code into the *Script* text area. +
  For instance, copy the following Declarative example Pipeline code (below the
  _Jenkinsfile ( ... )_ heading) or its Scripted version equivalent and paste
  this into the *Script* text area. (The Declarative example below is used
  throughout the remainder of this procedure.)
+
[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
pipeline {
    agent any // <1>
    stages {
        stage('Stage 1') {
            steps {
                echo 'Hello world!' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
// Script //
node { // <3>
    stage('Stage 1') {
        echo 'Hello World' // <2>
    }
}
----
<1> `agent` instructs Jenkins to allocate an executor (on any available
agent/node in the Jenkins environment) and workspace for the entire Pipeline.
<2> `echo` writes simple string in the console output.
<3> `node` effectively does the same as `agent` (above).
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/example-pipeline-in-classic-ui.png[alt="Example Pipeline in the classic UI",width=100%]
+
*Note:* You can also select from canned _Scripted_ Pipeline examples from the
*try sample Pipeline* option at the top right of the *Script* text area. Be
aware that there are no canned Declarative Pipeline examples available from this
field.
. Click *Save* to open the Pipeline project/item view page.
. On this page, click *Build Now* on the left to run the Pipeline.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column-on-item.png[alt="Classic UI left column on an item",width=35%]
. Under *Build History* on the left, click *#1* to access the details for this
  particular Pipeline run.
. Click *Console Output* to see the full output from the Pipeline run. The
  following output shows a successful run of your Pipeline.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/hello-world-console-output.png[alt="*Console Output* for the Pipeline",width=70%]
+
*Notes:*

* You can also access the console output directly from the Dashboard by clicking
  the colored globe to the left of the build number (e.g. *#1*).
* Defining a Pipeline through the classic UI is convenient for testing Pipeline
  code snippets, or for handling simple Pipelines or Pipelines that do not
  require source code to be checked out/cloned from a repository. As mentioned
  above, unlike ``Jenkinsfile``s you define through Blue Ocean
  (link:#through-blue-ocean[above]) or in source control
  (link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[below]), ``Jenkinsfile``s entered into
  the *Script* text area area of Pipeline projects are stored by Jenkins itself,
  within the Jenkins home directory. Therefore, for greater control and
  flexibility over your Pipeline, particularly for projects in source control
  that are likely to gain complexity, it is recommended that you use
  link:#through-blue-ocean[Blue Ocean] or
  link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[source control] to define your `Jenkinsfile`.


// Despite :sectanchors:, explicitly defining an anchor because it will be
// referenced from other documents
[[defining-a-pipeline-in-scm]]
=== In SCM

Complex Pipelines are difficult to write and maintain within the
link:#through-the-classic-ui[classic UI's] *Script* text area of the Pipeline
configuration page.

To make this easier, your Pipeline's `Jenkinsfile` can be written in a text
editor or integrated development environment (IDE) and committed to source
control footnote:scm[] (optionally with the application code that Jenkins
will build). Jenkins can then check out your `Jenkinsfile` from source control
as part of your Pipeline project's build process and then proceed to execute
your Pipeline.

To configure your Pipeline project to use a `Jenkinsfile` from source control:

. Follow the procedure above for defining your Pipeline
  link:#through-the-classic-ui[through the classic UI] until you reach step 5
  (accessing the *Pipeline* section on the Pipeline configuration page).
. From the *Definition* field, choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
. From the *SCM* field, choose the type of source control system of the
  repository containing your `Jenkinsfile`.
. Complete the fields specific to your repository's source control system. +
  *Tip:* If you are uncertain of what value to specify for a given field, click
  its *?* icon to the right for more information.
. In the *Script Path* field, specify the location (and name) of your
  `Jenkinsfile`. This location is the one that Jenkins checks out/clones the
  repository containing your `Jenkinsfile`, which should match that of the
  repository's file structure. The default value of this field assumes that your
  `Jenkinsfile` is named "Jenkinsfile" and is located at the root of the
  repository.

When you update the designated repository, a new build is triggered, as long as
the Pipeline is configured with an SCM polling trigger.
////
XXX: The above contains a reference to ""Pipeline script from SCM" dropdown
which needs to be renamed in a future release of Pipeline:
https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-40550
////

[TIP]
====
Since Pipeline code (i.e. Scripted Pipeline in particular) is written in
Groovy-like syntax, if your IDE is not correctly syntax highlighting your
`Jenkinsfile`, try inserting the line `#!/usr/bin/env groovy` at the top of the
`Jenkinsfile`,
footnote:shebang[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)[Shebang (general definition)]]
footnotegroovy_shebang:[link:http://groovy-lang.org/syntax.html#_shebang_line[Shebang line (Groovy syntax)]]
which may rectify the issue.
====


== Built-in Documentation

Pipeline ships with built-in documentation features to make it
easier to create Pipelines of varying complexities. This built-in documentation
is automatically generated and updated based on the plugins installed in the
Jenkins controller.

The built-in documentation can be found globally at `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax`.
The same documentation is also linked as *Pipeline Syntax* in the side-bar for any
configured Pipeline project.

[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column-on-item.png[alt="Classic UI left column on an item",width=35%]


[[snippet-generator]]
=== Snippet Generator

The built-in "Snippet Generator" utility is helpful for creating bits of
code for individual steps, discovering new steps provided by plugins, or
experimenting with different parameters for a particular step.

The Snippet Generator is dynamically populated with a list of the steps
available to the Jenkins controller. The number of steps available is dependent
on the plugins installed which explicitly expose steps for use in Pipeline.

To generate a step snippet with the Snippet Generator:

. Navigate to the *Pipeline Syntax* link (referenced above) from a configured Pipeline, or at `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax`.
. Select the desired step in the *Sample Step* dropdown menu
. Use the dynamically populated area below the *Sample Step* dropdown to configure the selected step.
. Click *Generate Pipeline Script* to create a snippet of Pipeline which can be
copied and pasted into a Pipeline.


////
XXX: The above contains a reference to "Generate Pipeline Script" button which
needs to be renamed in a future release of Pipeline:
https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-40550
////

[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/snippet-generator.png[alt="Snippet Generator",width=100%]

To access additional information and/or documentation about the step selected,
click on the help icon (indicated by the red arrow in the image above).

=== Global Variable Reference

In addition to the Snippet Generator, which only surfaces steps, Pipeline also
provides a built-in "*Global Variable Reference*." Like the Snippet Generator,
it is also dynamically populated by plugins. Unlike the Snippet Generator
however, the Global Variable Reference only contains documentation for
*variables* provided by Pipeline or plugins, which are available for
Pipelines.

The variables provided by default in Pipeline are:

env::

Exposes environment variables, for example:
`env.PATH` or `env.BUILD_ID`. Consult the built-in global variable reference at
`$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax/globals#env`
for a complete, and up to date, list of environment variables
available in Pipeline.

params::

Exposes all parameters defined for the Pipeline as a read-only
link:http://groovy-lang.org/syntax.html#_maps[Map],
for example: `params.MY_PARAM_NAME`.

currentBuild::

May be used to discover information about the currently executing Pipeline,
with properties such as `currentBuild.result`, `currentBuild.displayName`,
etc. Consult the built-in global variable reference at
`$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax/globals`
for a complete, and up to date, list of properties available on `currentBuild`.

This video reviews using the `currentBuild` variable in Jenkins Pipeline.

video::gcUORgHuna4[youtube,width=800,height=420]

[[directive-generator]]
=== Declarative Directive Generator

While the Snippet Generator helps with generating steps for a Scripted
Pipeline or for the `steps` block in a `stage` in a Declarative Pipeline, it
does not cover the link:../syntax#declarative-sections[sections] and
link:../syntax#declarative-directives[directives] used to define a Declarative Pipeline.
The "Declarative Directive Generator" utility helps with that.
Similar to the <<snippet-generator>>, the Directive Generator allows you
to choose a Declarative directive, configure it in a form, and generate the
configuration for that directive, which you can then use in your Declarative Pipeline.

To generate a Declarative directive using the Declarative Directive Generator:

. Navigate to the *Pipeline Syntax* link (referenced above) from a configured Pipeline,
  and then click on the *Declarative Directive Generator* link in the sidepanel,
  or go directly to `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/directive-generator`.
. Select the desired directive in the dropdown menu
. Use the dynamically populated area below the dropdown to configure the selected directive.
. Click *Generate Directive* to create the directive's configuration to copy
  into your Pipeline.

The Directive Generator can generate configuration for nested directives,
such as conditions inside a `when` directive, but it cannot generate Pipeline steps.
For the contents of directives which contain steps,
such as `steps` inside a `stage` or conditions like `always` or `failure` inside `post`,
the Directive Generator adds a placeholder comment instead.
You will still need to add steps to your Pipeline by hand.

[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
stage('Stage 1') {
    steps {
        // One or more steps need to be included within the steps block.
    }
}
// Script //
----


== Further Reading

This section merely scratches the surface of what can be done with Jenkins
Pipeline, but should provide enough of a foundation for you to start
experimenting with a test Jenkins controller.

In the next section, <<jenkinsfile#, The Jenkinsfile>>, more Pipeline steps
will be discussed along with patterns for implementing successful, real-world,
Jenkins Pipelines.


=== Additional Resources

* link:../../../pipeline/steps[Pipeline Steps Reference],
  encompassing all steps provided by plugins distributed in the Jenkins Update
  Center.
* link:../../../pipeline/examples[Pipeline Examples], a
  community-curated collection of copyable Pipeline examples.

Commit message:

Update UI screenshots in Pipeline documentation #7526 (#7653)
* Getting started page images and alt text updated - new item, item creation,  pipeline config page, build now, console output, pipeline  syntax, snippet  generator. Also associated text are updated.

* Running Pipelines page images and alt text updated - left column, restart from stage. Blue ocean image's alt text updated.

* Multibranch page images and alt text updated - item creation, branch source, branch source configuration, branch indexing. new item image alt text updated and associated text updated.

* Docker page image and alt text updated - configure docker label. Associated text updated.

* Shared libraries page images and alt text updated - add libraries, config global pipeline library, modern scm, legacy scm. Associated text updated and in screenshots branch name changed to main.

* Development Tools page images and alt text updated - pipeline builds, replay sidebar, replay script modified. Associated text updated.

* Pipeline as Code page images and alt text updated - orphan items, folder icon, organization folder creation, repository resource config, repositories progress builds, organization repositories, PR demo repository branches, stage concurrency, pipeline workflow, fingerprint. Associated text updated and also 'Credentials' line updated.

* Added plugin macro (suggestions from code review)

plugin:docker-workflow[*Docker Pipeline*]
plugin:custom-folder-icon[*Custom Folder Icon*]

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* Adjustment in punctuation (suggestions from code review)

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

content/doc/book/pipeline/getting-started.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Getting started with Pipeline
---

ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
// :pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
:pipeline-creation-admonition: true

= Getting started with Pipeline

As mentioned link:../[previously], Jenkins Pipeline is a suite of
plugins that supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines
into Jenkins. Pipeline provides an extensible set of tools for modeling
simple-to-complex delivery pipelines "as code" via the Pipeline DSL.
footnote:dsl[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language[Domain-specific language]]

This section describes how to get started with creating your Pipeline project in
Jenkins and introduces you to the various ways that a `Jenkinsfile` can be
created and stored.


== Prerequisites

To use Jenkins Pipeline, you will need:

* Jenkins 2.x or later (older versions back to 1.642.3 may work but are not
  recommended)
* Pipeline plugin,
  footnote:pipeline[link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/workflow-aggregator[Pipeline plugin]]
  which is installed as part of the "suggested plugins" (specified when running
  through the link:../../installing/linux/#setup-wizard[Post-installation setup wizard]
  after link:../../installing[installing Jenkins]).

Read more about how to install and manage plugins in
link:../../managing/plugins[Managing Plugins].


== Defining a Pipeline

Both
link:../#declarative-versus-scripted-pipeline-syntax[Declarative and Scripted Pipeline]
are DSLs footnote:dsl[] to describe portions of your software delivery
pipeline. Scripted Pipeline is written in a limited form of
link:http://groovy-lang.org/semantics.html[Groovy syntax].

Relevant components of Groovy syntax will be introduced as required throughout
this documentation, so while an understanding of Groovy is helpful, it is not
required to work with Pipeline.

A Pipeline can be created in one of the following ways:

* <<through-blue-ocean>> - after setting up a Pipeline project in Blue Ocean,
  the Blue Ocean UI helps you write your Pipeline's `Jenkinsfile` and commit it
  to source control.
* <<through-the-classic-ui>> - you can enter a basic Pipeline directly in
  Jenkins through the classic UI.
* link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[In SCM] - you can write a `Jenkinsfile`
  manually, which you can commit to your project's source control repository.
  footnote:scm[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control[Source control management]]

The syntax for defining a Pipeline with either approach is the same, but while
Jenkins supports entering Pipeline directly into the classic UI, it is
generally considered best practice to define the Pipeline in a `Jenkinsfile`
which Jenkins will then load directly from source control.

This video provides basic instructions on how to write both Declarative and Scripted Pipelines.

.Writing a Pipeline script in Jenkins
video::TiTrcFEsj7A[youtube,width=800,height=420]

=== Through Blue Ocean

If you are new to Jenkins Pipeline, the Blue Ocean UI helps you
link:../../blueocean/creating-pipelines[set up your Pipeline project], and
automatically creates and writes your Pipeline (i.e. the `Jenkinsfile`) for you
through the graphical Pipeline editor.

As part of setting up your Pipeline project in Blue Ocean, Jenkins configures a
secure and appropriately authenticated connection to your project's source
control repository. Therefore, any changes you make to the `Jenkinsfile` via
Blue Ocean's Pipeline editor are automatically saved and committed to source
control.

Read more about Blue Ocean in the link:../../blueocean[Blue Ocean] chapter and
link:../../blueocean/getting-started[Getting started with Blue Ocean] page.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

=== Through the classic UI

A `Jenkinsfile` created using the classic UI is stored by Jenkins itself (within
the Jenkins home directory).

To create a basic Pipeline through the Jenkins classic UI:

. If required, ensure you are logged in to Jenkins.
. From the Jenkins home page (i.e. the Dashboard of the Jenkins classic UI),
  click *New Item* at the top left.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI left column showing options: New Item, Build History, Project Relationship, Check File Fingerprint, Manage Jenkins and My Views.",width=35%]

. In the *Enter an item name* field, specify the name for your new Pipeline
  project. +
  *Caution:* Jenkins uses this item name to create directories on disk. It is
  recommended to avoid using spaces in item names, since doing so may uncover
  bugs in scripts that do not properly handle spaces in directory paths.
. Scroll down and click *Pipeline*, then click *OK* at the end of the page to
  open the Pipeline configuration page (whose *General* tab is selected).
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/new-item-creation.png[alt = "Jenkins New Item page with item name as 'example-pipeline' and 'Pipeline' option selected from the options for item type given as follows: Freestyle project, Pipeline, Multi-configuration project, Folder, Multibranch Pipeline and Organization Folder.",width=100%]

. Click the *Pipeline* tab in the side panel of the page to scroll down to the
  *Pipeline* section. +
  *Note:* If instead you are defining your `Jenkinsfile` in source control,
  follow the instructions in link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[In SCM] below.
. In the *Pipeline* section, ensure that the *Definition* field indicates the
  *Pipeline script* option.
. Enter your Pipeline code into the *Script* text area. +
  For instance, copy the following Declarative example Pipeline code (below the
  _Jenkinsfile ( ... )_ heading) or its Scripted version equivalent and paste
  this into the *Script* text area. (The Declarative example below is used
  throughout the remainder of this procedure.)
+
[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
pipeline {
    agent any // <1>
    stages {
        stage('Stage 1') {
            steps {
                echo 'Hello world!' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
// Script //
node { // <3>
    stage('Stage 1') {
        echo 'Hello World' // <2>
    }
}
----
<1> `agent` instructs Jenkins to allocate an executor (on any available
agent/node in the Jenkins environment) and workspace for the entire Pipeline.
<2> `echo` writes simple string in the console output.
<3> `node` effectively does the same as `agent` (above).
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/example-pipeline-in-classic-ui.png[alt = "Configure page of 'example-pipeline' with the Pipeline tab selected in the Jenkins Classic UI. The 'Hello World' script is written in the script section, and the 'Use Groovy Sandbox' option is checked.",width=100%]
+
*Note:* You can also select from canned _Scripted_ Pipeline examples from the
*try sample Pipeline* option at the top right of the *Script* text area. Be
aware that there are no canned Declarative Pipeline examples available from this
field.
. Click *Save* to open the Pipeline project/item view page.
. On this page, click *Build Now* on the left to run the Pipeline.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column-on-item-build-now.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI sidebar for 'example-pipeline', showing options: Status, Changes, Build Now, Configure, Delete Pipeline, Full Stage View, Stages, Rename and Pipeline Syntax.",width=35%]

. Under *Build History* on the left, click *#1* to access the details for this
  particular Pipeline run.
. Click *Console Output* to see the full output from the Pipeline run. The
  following output shows a successful run of your Pipeline.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/hello-world-console-output.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI for 'example-pipeline', showing the Console Output tab for build #1, executed by the admin user, with a successful finish status.",width=90%]

+
*Notes:*

* You can also access the console output directly from the Dashboard by clicking
  the colored globe to the left of the build number (e.g. *#1*).
* Defining a Pipeline through the classic UI is convenient for testing Pipeline
  code snippets, or for handling simple Pipelines or Pipelines that do not
  require source code to be checked out/cloned from a repository. As mentioned
  above, unlike ``Jenkinsfile``s you define through Blue Ocean
  (link:#through-blue-ocean[above]) or in source control
  (link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[below]), ``Jenkinsfile``s entered into
  the *Script* text area of Pipeline projects are stored by Jenkins itself,
  within the Jenkins home directory. Therefore, for greater control and
  flexibility over your Pipeline, particularly for projects in source control
  that are likely to gain complexity, it is recommended that you use
  link:#through-blue-ocean[Blue Ocean] or
  link:#defining-a-pipeline-in-scm[source control] to define your `Jenkinsfile`.


// Despite :sectanchors:, explicitly defining an anchor because it will be
// referenced from other documents
[[defining-a-pipeline-in-scm]]
=== In SCM

Complex Pipelines are difficult to write and maintain within the
link:#through-the-classic-ui[classic UI's] *Script* text area of the Pipeline
configuration page.

To make this easier, your Pipeline's `Jenkinsfile` can be written in a text
editor or integrated development environment (IDE) and committed to source
control footnote:scm[] (optionally with the application code that Jenkins
will build). Jenkins can then check out your `Jenkinsfile` from source control
as part of your Pipeline project's build process and then proceed to execute
your Pipeline.

To configure your Pipeline project to use a `Jenkinsfile` from source control:

. Follow the procedure above for defining your Pipeline
  link:#through-the-classic-ui[through the classic UI] until you reach step 5
  (accessing the *Pipeline* section on the Pipeline configuration page).
. From the *Definition* field, choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
. From the *SCM* field, choose the type of source control system of the
  repository containing your `Jenkinsfile`.
. Complete the fields specific to your repository's source control system. +
  *Tip:* If you are uncertain of what value to specify for a given field, click
  its *?* icon to the right for more information.
. In the *Script Path* field, specify the location (and name) of your
  `Jenkinsfile`. This location is the one that Jenkins checks out/clones the
  repository containing your `Jenkinsfile`, which should match that of the
  repository's file structure. The default value of this field assumes that your
  `Jenkinsfile` is named "Jenkinsfile" and is located at the root of the
  repository.

When you update the designated repository, a new build is triggered, as long as
the Pipeline is configured with an SCM polling trigger.
////
XXX: The above contains a reference to ""Pipeline script from SCM" dropdown
which needs to be renamed in a future release of Pipeline:
https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-40550
////

[TIP]
====
Since Pipeline code (i.e. Scripted Pipeline in particular) is written in
Groovy-like syntax, if your IDE is not correctly syntax highlighting your
`Jenkinsfile`, try inserting the line `#!/usr/bin/env groovy` at the top of the
`Jenkinsfile`,
footnote:shebang[link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)[Shebang (general definition)]]
footnotegroovy_shebang:[link:http://groovy-lang.org/syntax.html#_shebang_line[Shebang line (Groovy syntax)]]
which may rectify the issue.
====


== Built-in Documentation

Pipeline ships with built-in documentation features to make it
easier to create Pipelines of varying complexities. This built-in documentation
is automatically generated and updated based on the plugins installed in the
Jenkins controller.

The built-in documentation can be found globally at `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax`.
The same documentation is also linked as *Pipeline Syntax* in the side-bar for any
configured Pipeline project.

[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/classic-ui-left-column-on-item-pipeline-syntax.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI sidebar for 'example-pipeline', showing options: Status, Changes, Build Now, Configure, Delete Pipeline, Full Stage View, Stages, Rename and Pipeline Syntax.",width=35%]


[[snippet-generator]]
=== Snippet Generator

The built-in "Snippet Generator" utility is helpful for creating bits of
code for individual steps, discovering new steps provided by plugins, or
experimenting with different parameters for a particular step.

The Snippet Generator is dynamically populated with a list of the steps
available to the Jenkins controller. The number of steps available is dependent
on the plugins installed which explicitly expose steps for use in Pipeline.

To generate a step snippet with the Snippet Generator:

. Navigate to the *Pipeline Syntax* link (referenced above) from a configured Pipeline, or at `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax`.
. Select the desired step in the *Sample Step* dropdown menu
. Use the dynamically populated area below the *Sample Step* dropdown to configure the selected step.
. Click *Generate Pipeline Script* to create a snippet of Pipeline which can be
copied and pasted into a Pipeline.


////
XXX: The above contains a reference to "Generate Pipeline Script" button which
needs to be renamed in a future release of Pipeline:
https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-40550
////

[.boxshadow]
image:pipeline/snippet-generator.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI for 'example-pipeline', showing the Pipeline Syntax page with the Snippet Generator tab selected. The snippet generated for the stage named 'Deploy' is displayed in the script block.",width=100%]

To access additional information and/or documentation about the step selected,
click on the help icon (indicated by the red arrow in the image above).

=== Global Variable Reference

In addition to the Snippet Generator, which only surfaces steps, Pipeline also
provides a built-in "*Global Variable Reference*." Like the Snippet Generator,
it is also dynamically populated by plugins. Unlike the Snippet Generator
however, the Global Variable Reference only contains documentation for
*variables* provided by Pipeline or plugins, which are available for
Pipelines.

The variables provided by default in Pipeline are:

env::

Exposes environment variables, for example:
`env.PATH` or `env.BUILD_ID`. Consult the built-in global variable reference at
`$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax/globals#env`
for a complete, and up to date, list of environment variables
available in Pipeline.

params::

Exposes all parameters defined for the Pipeline as a read-only
link:http://groovy-lang.org/syntax.html#_maps[Map],
for example: `params.MY_PARAM_NAME`.

currentBuild::

May be used to discover information about the currently executing Pipeline,
with properties such as `currentBuild.result`, `currentBuild.displayName`,
etc. Consult the built-in global variable reference at
`$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/pipeline-syntax/globals`
for a complete, and up to date, list of properties available on `currentBuild`.

This video reviews using the `currentBuild` variable in Jenkins Pipeline.

video::gcUORgHuna4[youtube,width=800,height=420]

[[directive-generator]]
=== Declarative Directive Generator

While the Snippet Generator helps with generating steps for a Scripted
Pipeline or for the `steps` block in a `stage` in a Declarative Pipeline, it
does not cover the link:../syntax#declarative-sections[sections] and
link:../syntax#declarative-directives[directives] used to define a Declarative Pipeline.
The "Declarative Directive Generator" utility helps with that.
Similar to the <<snippet-generator>>, the Directive Generator allows you
to choose a Declarative directive, configure it in a form, and generate the
configuration for that directive, which you can then use in your Declarative Pipeline.

To generate a Declarative directive using the Declarative Directive Generator:

. Navigate to the *Pipeline Syntax* link (referenced above) from a configured Pipeline,
  and then click on the *Declarative Directive Generator* link in the sidepanel,
  or go directly to `$\{YOUR_JENKINS_URL}/directive-generator`.
. Select the desired directive in the dropdown menu
. Use the dynamically populated area below the dropdown to configure the selected directive.
. Click *Generate Directive* to create the directive's configuration to copy
  into your Pipeline.

The Directive Generator can generate configuration for nested directives,
such as conditions inside a `when` directive, but it cannot generate Pipeline steps.
For the contents of directives which contain steps,
such as `steps` inside a `stage` or conditions like `always` or `failure` inside `post`,
the Directive Generator adds a placeholder comment instead.
You will still need to add steps to your Pipeline by hand.

[pipeline]
----
// Declarative //
stage('Stage 1') {
    steps {
        // One or more steps need to be included within the steps block.
    }
}
// Script //
----


== Further Reading

This section merely scratches the surface of what can be done with Jenkins
Pipeline, but should provide enough of a foundation for you to start
experimenting with a test Jenkins controller.

In the next section, <<jenkinsfile#, The Jenkinsfile>>, more Pipeline steps
will be discussed along with patterns for implementing successful, real-world,
Jenkins Pipelines.


=== Additional Resources

* link:../../../pipeline/steps[Pipeline Steps Reference],
  encompassing all steps provided by plugins distributed in the Jenkins Update
  Center.
* link:../../../pipeline/examples[Pipeline Examples], a
  community-curated collection of copyable Pipeline examples.
