content/doc/book/pipeline/multibranch.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Branches and Pull Requests
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

= Branches and Pull Requests

In the <<jenkinsfile#, previous section>> a `Jenkinsfile` which could be
checked into source control was implemented. This section covers the concept of
*Multibranch* Pipelines which build on the `Jenkinsfile` foundation to provide
more dynamic and automatic functionality in Jenkins.

.Creating a Multibranch Pipeline in Jenkins
video::B_2FXWI6CWg[youtube,width=800,height=420]

== Creating a Multibranch Pipeline

The *Multibranch Pipeline* project type enables you to implement different
Jenkinsfiles for different branches of the same project.
In a Multibranch Pipeline project, Jenkins automatically discovers, manages and
executes Pipelines for branches which contain a `Jenkinsfile` in source control.

This eliminates the need for manual Pipeline creation and management.

To create a Multibranch Pipeline:

* Click *New Item* on Jenkins home page.

image::pipeline/classic-ui-left-column.png[alt="Classic UI left column",width=30%]

* Enter a name for your Pipeline, select *Multibranch Pipeline* and click *OK*.

[CAUTION]
====
Jenkins uses the name of the Pipeline to create directories on disk. Pipeline
names which include spaces may uncover bugs in scripts which do not expect
paths to contain spaces.
====

image::pipeline/new-item-multibranch-creation.png["Enter a name, select *Multibranch Pipeline*, and click *OK*", role=center]

* Add a *Branch Source* (for example, Git) and enter the location of the
  repository.

image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-source.png["Add a Branch Source", role=center]
image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-source-configuration.png["Add the URL to the project repository", role=center]


* *Save* the Multibranch Pipeline project.

Upon *Save*, Jenkins automatically scans the designated repository and creates
appropriate items for each branch in the repository which contains a
`Jenkinsfile`.

By default, Jenkins will not automatically re-index the repository for branch
additions or deletions (unless using an <<organization-folders,Organization Folder>>),
so it is often useful to configure a Multibranch Pipeline to periodically
re-index in the configuration:

image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-indexing.png["Setting up branch re-indexing", role=center]


=== Additional Environment Variables

Multibranch Pipelines expose additional information about the branch being
built through the `env` global variable, such as:

BRANCH_NAME:: Name of the branch for which this Pipeline is executing, for
example `master`.

CHANGE_ID:: An identifier corresponding to some kind of change request, such as a pull request number

Additional environment variables are listed in the
<<getting-started#global-variable-reference#, Global Variable Reference>>.


=== Supporting Pull Requests

Multibranch Pipelines can be used for validating pull/change requests with the appropriate plugin.
This functionality is provided by the following plugins:

* plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub Branch Source]
* plugin:cloudbees-bitbucket-branch-source[Bitbucket Branch Source]
* plugin:gitlab-branch-source[GitLab Branch Source]
* plugin:gitea[Gitea]
* plugin:tuleap-git-branch-source[Tuleap Git Branch Source]
* plugin:aws-codecommit-jobs[AWS CodeCommit Jobs]
* plugin:dagshub-branch-source[DAGsHub Branch Source]

Please consult their documentation for further information on how to
use those plugins.


[[organization-folders]]
== Using Organization Folders

Organization Folders enable Jenkins to monitor an entire GitHub
Organization, Bitbucket Team/Project, GitLab organization, or Gitea organization and automatically create new
Multibranch Pipelines for repositories which contain branches and pull requests
containing a `Jenkinsfile`.

Organization folders are implemented for:

* GitHub in the plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub Branch Source] plugin
* Bitbucket in the plugin:cloudbees-bitbucket-branch-source[Bitbucket Branch Source] plugin
* GitLab in the plugin:gitlab-branch-source[GitLab Branch Source] plugin
* Gitea in the plugin:gitea[Gitea] plugin

// Hints of possible implementations mentioned in link:/doc/developer/extensions/scm-api/#scmnavigator[]
// AWS Code Commit Jobs Plugin - not really an organization folder, but discovers repositories in AWS CodeCommit
// Tuleap Git Branch Source Plugin - not mentioned as an organization folder

Commit message:

Update UI screenshots in Pipeline documentation #7526 (#7653)
* Getting started page images and alt text updated - new item, item creation,  pipeline config page, build now, console output, pipeline  syntax, snippet  generator. Also associated text are updated.

* Running Pipelines page images and alt text updated - left column, restart from stage. Blue ocean image's alt text updated.

* Multibranch page images and alt text updated - item creation, branch source, branch source configuration, branch indexing. new item image alt text updated and associated text updated.

* Docker page image and alt text updated - configure docker label. Associated text updated.

* Shared libraries page images and alt text updated - add libraries, config global pipeline library, modern scm, legacy scm. Associated text updated and in screenshots branch name changed to main.

* Development Tools page images and alt text updated - pipeline builds, replay sidebar, replay script modified. Associated text updated.

* Pipeline as Code page images and alt text updated - orphan items, folder icon, organization folder creation, repository resource config, repositories progress builds, organization repositories, PR demo repository branches, stage concurrency, pipeline workflow, fingerprint. Associated text updated and also 'Credentials' line updated.

* Added plugin macro (suggestions from code review)

plugin:docker-workflow[*Docker Pipeline*]
plugin:custom-folder-icon[*Custom Folder Icon*]

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* Adjustment in punctuation (suggestions from code review)

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

content/doc/book/pipeline/multibranch.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Branches and Pull Requests
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
:toc:
endif::[]

= Branches and Pull Requests

In the <<jenkinsfile#, previous section>> a `Jenkinsfile` which could be
checked into source control was implemented. This section covers the concept of
*Multibranch* Pipelines which build on the `Jenkinsfile` foundation to provide
more dynamic and automatic functionality in Jenkins.

.Creating a Multibranch Pipeline in Jenkins
video::B_2FXWI6CWg[youtube,width=800,height=420]

== Creating a Multibranch Pipeline

The *Multibranch Pipeline* project type enables you to implement different
Jenkinsfiles for different branches of the same project.
In a Multibranch Pipeline project, Jenkins automatically discovers, manages and
executes Pipelines for branches which contain a `Jenkinsfile` in source control.

This eliminates the need for manual Pipeline creation and management.

To create a Multibranch Pipeline:

* Click *New Item* on Jenkins home page.

image::pipeline/classic-ui-left-column.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI left column showing options: New Item, Build History, Project Relationship, Check File Fingerprint, Manage Jenkins and My Views.",width=35%]

* Enter a name for your Pipeline, select *Multibranch Pipeline* and click *OK*.

[CAUTION]
====
Jenkins uses the name of the Pipeline to create directories on disk. Pipeline
names which include spaces may uncover bugs in scripts which do not expect
paths to contain spaces.
====

image::pipeline/new-item-multibranch-creation.png[alt = "Jenkins New Item page with item name as 'multibranch-example' and 'Multibranch Pipeline' option selected from the options for item type given as follows: Freestyle project, Pipeline, Multi-configuration project, Folder, Multi-branch Pipeline and Organization Folder.", role=center]

* Add a *Branch Source* (for example, Git).

image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-source.png[alt = "Configure page of 'multibranch-example' pipeline. In the 'Branch Sources' section 'Git' is selected from the 'Add Source' dropdown menu.", role=center, width=45%]

* Enter the location of the Git Repository.

image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-source-configuration.png[alt = "Configure page of 'multibranch-example' pipeline. Branch Source configuration section for 'Git' branch source option is opened with options to add project repository link, Credentials, Behaviors and Property Strategy.", role=center]


* *Save* the Multibranch Pipeline project.

Upon *Save*, Jenkins automatically scans the designated repository and creates
appropriate items for each branch in the repository which contains a
`Jenkinsfile`.

By default, Jenkins will not automatically re-index the repository for branch
additions or deletions (unless using an <<organization-folders,Organization Folder>>),
so it is often useful to configure a Multibranch Pipeline to periodically
re-index in the configuration:

image::pipeline/multibranch-branch-indexing.png[alt = "Configure page of 'multibranch-example' pipeline. In the 'Scan Multibranch Pipeline Triggers' section the 'Periodically if not otherwise run' option is checked and the Interval is set to '30 minutes'.", role=center]


=== Additional Environment Variables

Multibranch Pipelines expose additional information about the branch being
built through the `env` global variable, such as:

BRANCH_NAME:: Name of the branch for which this Pipeline is executing, for
example `master`.

CHANGE_ID:: An identifier corresponding to some kind of change request, such as a pull request number

Additional environment variables are listed in the
<<getting-started#global-variable-reference#, Global Variable Reference>>.


=== Supporting Pull Requests

Multibranch Pipelines can be used for validating pull/change requests with the appropriate plugin.
This functionality is provided by the following plugins:

* plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub Branch Source]
* plugin:cloudbees-bitbucket-branch-source[Bitbucket Branch Source]
* plugin:gitlab-branch-source[GitLab Branch Source]
* plugin:gitea[Gitea]
* plugin:tuleap-git-branch-source[Tuleap Git Branch Source]
* plugin:aws-codecommit-jobs[AWS CodeCommit Jobs]
* plugin:dagshub-branch-source[DAGsHub Branch Source]

Please consult their documentation for further information on how to
use those plugins.


[[organization-folders]]
== Using Organization Folders

Organization Folders enable Jenkins to monitor an entire GitHub
Organization, Bitbucket Team/Project, GitLab organization, or Gitea organization and automatically create new
Multibranch Pipelines for repositories which contain branches and pull requests
containing a `Jenkinsfile`.

Organization folders are implemented for:

* GitHub in the plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub Branch Source] plugin
* Bitbucket in the plugin:cloudbees-bitbucket-branch-source[Bitbucket Branch Source] plugin
* GitLab in the plugin:gitlab-branch-source[GitLab Branch Source] plugin
* Gitea in the plugin:gitea[Gitea] plugin

// Hints of possible implementations mentioned in link:/doc/developer/extensions/scm-api/#scmnavigator[]
// AWS Code Commit Jobs Plugin - not really an organization folder, but discovers repositories in AWS CodeCommit
// Tuleap Git Branch Source Plugin - not mentioned as an organization folder
