content/doc/book/pipeline/running-pipelines.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Running Pipelines
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
:pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
// :pipeline-creation-admonition: true

== Running a Pipeline

// TODO: WEBSITE-495 - flesh out placeholder sections.

=== Multibranch

See <<multibranch#, the Multibranch documentation>> for more information.

=== Parameters

See <<jenkinsfile#handling-parameters, the Jenkinsfile documentation>> for more information

== Restarting or Rerunning a Pipeline

There are a number of ways to rerun or restart a completed Pipeline.

=== Replay

See <<development#replay, the Replay documentation>> for more information.

=== Restart from a Stage

You can restart any completed Declarative Pipeline from any
top-level stage which ran in that Pipeline. This allows you to rerun a Pipeline from a stage which failed due to
transient or environmental considerations, for example. All inputs to the Pipeline will be the same. This includes
SCM information, build parameters, and the contents of any `stash` step calls in the original Pipeline, if specified.

==== How to Use

No additional configuration is needed in the Jenkinsfile to allow you to restart stages in your Declarative Pipelines.
This is an inherent part of Declarative Pipelines and is available automatically.

===== Restarting from the Classic UI

Once your Pipeline has completed, whether it succeeds or fails, you can go to the side panel for the run in the classic
UI and click on "Restart from Stage".

image::pipeline/restart-stages-sidebar.png[Restart from Stage link]

You will be prompted to choose from a list of top-level stages that were executed in the original run, in the order
they were executed. Stages which were skipped due to an earlier failure will not be available to be restarted, but
stages which were skipped due to a `when` condition not being satisfied will be available. The parent stage for a
group of `parallel` stages, or a group of nested `stages` to be run sequentially will also not be available - only
top-level stages are allowed.

image::pipeline/restart-stages-dropdown.png[Choose the stage to restart]

Once you choose a stage to restart from and click submit, a new build, with a new build number, will be started. All
stages before the selected stage will be skipped, and the Pipeline will start executing at the selected stage. From
that point on, the Pipeline will run as normal.

===== Restarting from the Blue Ocean UI

Restarting stages can also be done in the Blue Ocean UI.  Once your Pipeline has completed, whether it succeeds
or fails, you can click on the node which represents the stage.  You can then click on the `Restart` link for
that stage.

image::pipeline/pipeline-restart-stages-blue-ocean.png[Click on Restart link for stage]

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

==== Preserving `stash`es for Use with Restarted Stages

Normally, when you run the `stash` step in your Pipeline, the resulting stash of artifacts is cleared when the
Pipeline completes, regardless of the result of the Pipeline. Since `stash` artifacts aren't accessible outside of the
Pipeline run that created them, this has not created any limitations on usage. But with Declarative stage restarting,
you may want to be able to `unstash` artifacts from a stage which ran before the stage you're restarting from.

To enable this, there is a job property that allows you to configure a maximum number of completed runs whose
`stash` artifacts should be preserved for reuse in a restarted run. You can specify anywhere from 1 to 50 as the
number of runs to preserve.

This job property can be configured in your Declarative Pipeline's `options` section, as below:

[source,groovy]
----
options {
    preserveStashes() // <1>
    // or
    preserveStashes(buildCount: 5) // <2>
}
----
<1> The default number of runs to preserve is 1, just the most recent completed build.
<2> If a number for `buildCount` outside of the range of 1 to 50 is specified, the Pipeline will fail with a
validation error.

When a Pipeline completes, it will check to see if any previously completed runs should have their `stash` artifacts
cleared.

== Scheduling jobs in Jenkins

The scheduling function lets you schedule jobs to run automatically during off-hours or down times.
Scheduling jobs can help you to scale your environment as Jenkins usage increases.
This video provides insight on the scheduling function and its various configuration options.

video::JhvVJtYFUm0[youtube,width=800,height=420]

Commit message:

Update UI screenshots in Pipeline documentation #7526 (#7653)
* Getting started page images and alt text updated - new item, item creation,  pipeline config page, build now, console output, pipeline  syntax, snippet  generator. Also associated text are updated.

* Running Pipelines page images and alt text updated - left column, restart from stage. Blue ocean image's alt text updated.

* Multibranch page images and alt text updated - item creation, branch source, branch source configuration, branch indexing. new item image alt text updated and associated text updated.

* Docker page image and alt text updated - configure docker label. Associated text updated.

* Shared libraries page images and alt text updated - add libraries, config global pipeline library, modern scm, legacy scm. Associated text updated and in screenshots branch name changed to main.

* Development Tools page images and alt text updated - pipeline builds, replay sidebar, replay script modified. Associated text updated.

* Pipeline as Code page images and alt text updated - orphan items, folder icon, organization folder creation, repository resource config, repositories progress builds, organization repositories, PR demo repository branches, stage concurrency, pipeline workflow, fingerprint. Associated text updated and also 'Credentials' line updated.

* Added plugin macro (suggestions from code review)

plugin:docker-workflow[*Docker Pipeline*]
plugin:custom-folder-icon[*Custom Folder Icon*]

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

* Adjustment in punctuation (suggestions from code review)

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kevin Martens <99040580+kmartens27@users.noreply.github.com>

content/doc/book/pipeline/running-pipelines.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Running Pipelines
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]
// Show 2/3 of the Blue ocean admonitions
:pipeline-visualization-admonition: true
// :pipeline-creation-admonition: true

== Running a Pipeline

// TODO: WEBSITE-495 - flesh out placeholder sections.

=== Multibranch

See <<multibranch#, the Multibranch documentation>> for more information.

=== Parameters

See <<jenkinsfile#handling-parameters, the Jenkinsfile documentation>> for more information

== Restarting or Rerunning a Pipeline

There are a number of ways to rerun or restart a completed Pipeline.

=== Replay

See <<development#replay, the Replay documentation>> for more information.

=== Restart from a Stage

You can restart any completed Declarative Pipeline from any
top-level stage which ran in that Pipeline. This allows you to rerun a Pipeline from a stage which failed due to
transient or environmental considerations, for example. All inputs to the Pipeline will be the same. This includes
SCM information, build parameters, and the contents of any `stash` step calls in the original Pipeline, if specified.

==== How to Use

No additional configuration is needed in the Jenkinsfile to allow you to restart stages in your Declarative Pipelines.
This is an inherent part of Declarative Pipelines and is available automatically.

===== Restarting from the Classic UI

Once your Pipeline has completed, whether it succeeds or fails, you can go to the side panel for the run in the classic
UI and click on "Restart from Stage".

image::pipeline/restart-stages-sidebar.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI sidebar for 'example-pipeline' build #1 showing options: Status, Changes, Console Output, Edit Build Information, Delete Build #1, Timings, Pipeline Overview, Pipeline Console, Restart from Stage, Replay, Pipeline Steps, Workspaces, and Previous Build."]

You will be prompted to choose from a list of top-level stages that were executed in the original run, in the order
they were executed. Stages which were skipped due to an earlier failure will not be available to be restarted, but
stages which were skipped due to a `when` condition not being satisfied will be available. The parent stage for a
group of `parallel` stages, or a group of nested `stages` to be run sequentially will also not be available - only
top-level stages are allowed.

image::pipeline/restart-stages-dropdown.png[alt = "Jenkins Classic UI to restart build #1 from a selected stage. The section displays a dropdown menu labeled 'Stage Name' with the selected option 'Fetch' and a blue button labeled 'Run' to initiate the restart."]

Once you choose a stage to restart from and click submit, a new build, with a new build number, will be started. All
stages before the selected stage will be skipped, and the Pipeline will start executing at the selected stage. From
that point on, the Pipeline will run as normal.

===== Restarting from the Blue Ocean UI

Restarting stages can also be done in the Blue Ocean UI.  Once your Pipeline has completed, whether it succeeds
or fails, you can click on the node which represents the stage.  You can then click on the `Restart` link for
that stage.

image::pipeline/pipeline-restart-stages-blue-ocean.png[alt = "Jenkins pipeline visualization in Blue Ocean Dashboard showing the stages of a successful pipeline run. The stages include Start, Build, Some Tests, Browser Tests (with Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, and Safari sub-stages), Testing Some Other Things, Static Analysis, and Deploy. Each stage is marked with a green checkmark indicating successful completion. At the bottom, there is a Deploy / final stage with a message log and options to restart the deployment and download logs."]

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

==== Preserving `stash`es for Use with Restarted Stages

Normally, when you run the `stash` step in your Pipeline, the resulting stash of artifacts is cleared when the
Pipeline completes, regardless of the result of the Pipeline. Since `stash` artifacts aren't accessible outside of the
Pipeline run that created them, this has not created any limitations on usage. But with Declarative stage restarting,
you may want to be able to `unstash` artifacts from a stage which ran before the stage you're restarting from.

To enable this, there is a job property that allows you to configure a maximum number of completed runs whose
`stash` artifacts should be preserved for reuse in a restarted run. You can specify anywhere from 1 to 50 as the
number of runs to preserve.

This job property can be configured in your Declarative Pipeline's `options` section, as below:

[source,groovy]
----
options {
    preserveStashes() // <1>
    // or
    preserveStashes(buildCount: 5) // <2>
}
----
<1> The default number of runs to preserve is 1, just the most recent completed build.
<2> If a number for `buildCount` outside of the range of 1 to 50 is specified, the Pipeline will fail with a
validation error.

When a Pipeline completes, it will check to see if any previously completed runs should have their `stash` artifacts
cleared.

== Scheduling jobs in Jenkins

The scheduling function lets you schedule jobs to run automatically during off-hours or down times.
Scheduling jobs can help you to scale your environment as Jenkins usage increases.
This video provides insight on the scheduling function and its various configuration options.

video::JhvVJtYFUm0[youtube,width=800,height=420]
