content/doc/developer/plugin-development/dependency-management.adoc, before:

---
layout: developersection
title: Dependency Management
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-pom/
  title: Plugin parent POM 4.0 and up
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/bom/pom.xml
  title: Jenkins Core BOM
---

Plugins depend on specific versions of libraries and of other plugins, each of which is versioned independently.
Each dependency may have dependencies of its own and different versions of different libraries and plugins may not be compatible with each other.
Moreover, the dependencies can change with each Jenkins release, so managing these dependencies manually can be difficult and time consuming.

Jenkins has tools that simplify dependency management:

* <<jenkins-core-bom,Jenkins core Bill of Materials (BOM)>> centrally defines the **library versions** provided by Jenkins core
* <<jenkins-plugin-bom,Plugin Bill of Materials (BOM)>> centrally defines a set of **plugin versions** that have been tested together
* <<Dependabot>> automatically proposes a pull request when a new version of a dependency is released

== Jenkins core BOM

Jenkins core provides a link:https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#Importing_Dependencies[Maven Bill Of Materials (BOM)] that centrally defines versions of various libraries used by Jenkins.
If you are using Maven to build your plugin, then you can simplify dependency management by importing this BOM, at `jenkins.version`.
Dependency versions are then automatically  synchronized with the version of Jenkins against which you are building.

Library dependency issues may cause `Require upper bound dependencies` build errors such as:

[source]
----
[WARNING] Rule 4: org.apache.maven.plugins.enforcer.RequireUpperBoundDeps failed with message:
Failed while enforcing RequireUpperBoundDeps. The error(s) are [
Require upper bound dependencies error for commons-codec:commons-codec:1.9 paths to dependency are:
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-commons-codec:commons-codec:1.9
and
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.jenkins-ci.main:jenkins-core:2.195
    +-commons-codec:commons-codec:1.12
,
Require upper bound dependencies error for org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.25 paths to dependency are:
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.25
and
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.jenkins-ci.main:jenkins-core:2.195
    +-org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.26
----

This error says that a conflict exists between the versions of `commons-codec` and `jcl-over-slf4j` specified by the plugin versus Jenkins core.
See link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/updating-parent/#understanding-requireupperbounddeps-failures-and-fixes[Understanding requireUpperBoundDeps failures and fixes] for more information.

In many cases, upper bounds dependencies errors are best resolved by updating the Jenkins core Bill of Materials and by using the Jenkins plugin Bill of Materials.

=== Update the Jenkins Core Bill of Materials (BOM)

Update the parent pom version with the following commands:

[source,bash]
----
mvn versions:update-parent
mvn clean verify
----

If the command reports an error that the `Project does not have a parent`, please configure `~/.m2/settings.xml` as noted in the link:/doc/developer/tutorial/prepare/[tutorial].

See the video below for a step by step guide to updating the parent pom.

.Update the parent pom
video::Fev8KfFsPZE[youtube, width=852, height=480,start=807]

== Jenkins plugin BOM

The plugin bill of materials (BOM) defines the versions of various plugins used by specific Jenkins versions.
The plugin bill of materials includes many commonly used plugins
and simplifies dependency management for plugins that depend on other plugins.

A plugin that tests its Pipeline implementation typically depends on several Pipeline plugins.
The plugin BOM provides Pipeline plugin version numbers so that the developer does not need to maintain the independent version numbers of the Pipeline plugins.

The plugin bill of materials is defined in the `dependencyManagement` section of your _pom.xml_ file.
To use the Jenkins plugin BOM in your plugin:

. Confirm that you are using the link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/updating-parent/[current parent pom] with the command `mvn versions:update-parent`
. Locate the most recent plugin bom version number on the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/bom/releases[plugin bom releases page]
. Copy the `dependencyManagement` section from the _pom.xml_ file in that directory
. Insert this `dependencyManagement` section into the _pom.xml_ file for your plugin
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.jenkins.tools.bom</groupId>
            <artifactId>bom-2.452.x</artifactId>
            <!-- Latest version goes here -->
            <version>3761.vd922730f0fd2</version>
            <scope>import</scope>
            <type>pom</type>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----
. Remove the `<version>` values from plugin dependencies in your plugin's _pom.xml_
. Rebuild your plugin to see if this solves your dependency issues.
  Many commonly used plugins are included in the plugin pom.
  However, not **all** plugins are included.
  You may need to iterate on removing `<version>` values from specific plugins

See the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/bom#readme[plugin BOM documentation] for further details.
The video below demonstrates how to add the plugin BOM to a Jenkins plugin.

.Simplify plugin dependency management with the plugin BOM
video::pk1gweLvcEI[youtube, width=852, height=480, start=1771]

== Dependabot

GitHub link:https://github.com/dependabot[Dependabot] can automate plugin dependency management.
Newly created plugins built from the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/blob/master/.github/dependabot.yml[Jenkins plugin archetype] include Dependabot by default.

Existing plugins need to configure Dependabot in their existing plugin repository.
See the video below for an example that adds Dependabot to an existing plugin repository:

.Automate dependency management with Dependabot
video::2c8wK2jkcIA[youtube, width=852, height=480, start=980]

Commit message:

Warn against version range usage (#7731)
* Warn against version range usage

* add dependabot info

* Update content/doc/developer/plugin-development/dependency-management.adoc

Co-authored-by: Mark Waite <mark.earl.waite@gmail.com>

* Correct spelling of Renovate

---------

Co-authored-by: Mark Waite <mark.earl.waite@gmail.com>

content/doc/developer/plugin-development/dependency-management.adoc, after:

---
layout: developersection
title: Dependency Management
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-pom/
  title: Plugin parent POM 4.0 and up
- url: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/bom/pom.xml
  title: Jenkins Core BOM
---

Plugins depend on specific versions of libraries and of other plugins, each of which is versioned independently.
Each dependency may have dependencies of its own, and different versions of different libraries and plugins may not be compatible with each other.
Moreover, the dependencies can change with each Jenkins release, so managing these dependencies manually can be difficult and time consuming.
Avoid using version ranges when developing plugins, as this reduces the repeatability of builds and can create dependency management problems.
The expected pattern for dependencies is to have pinned dependencies updated by <<Dependabot>> or link:https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate[Renovate].

Jenkins has tools that simplify dependency management:

* <<jenkins-core-bom,Jenkins core Bill of Materials (BOM)>> centrally defines the **library versions** provided by Jenkins core
* <<jenkins-plugin-bom,Plugin Bill of Materials (BOM)>> centrally defines a set of **plugin versions** that have been tested together
* <<Dependabot>> automatically proposes a pull request when a new version of a dependency is released

== Jenkins core BOM

Jenkins core provides a link:https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#Importing_Dependencies[Maven Bill Of Materials (BOM)] that centrally defines versions of various libraries used by Jenkins.
If you are using Maven to build your plugin, then you can simplify dependency management by importing this BOM, at `jenkins.version`.
Dependency versions are then automatically  synchronized with the version of Jenkins against which you are building.

Library dependency issues may cause `Require upper bound dependencies` build errors such as:

[source]
----
[WARNING] Rule 4: org.apache.maven.plugins.enforcer.RequireUpperBoundDeps failed with message:
Failed while enforcing RequireUpperBoundDeps. The error(s) are [
Require upper bound dependencies error for commons-codec:commons-codec:1.9 paths to dependency are:
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-commons-codec:commons-codec:1.9
and
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.jenkins-ci.main:jenkins-core:2.195
    +-commons-codec:commons-codec:1.12
,
Require upper bound dependencies error for org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.25 paths to dependency are:
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.25
and
+-org.jenkins-ci.plugins:blueocean-display-url:2.3.1-SNAPSHOT
  +-org.jenkins-ci.main:jenkins-core:2.195
    +-org.slf4j:jcl-over-slf4j:1.7.26
----

This error says that a conflict exists between the versions of `commons-codec` and `jcl-over-slf4j` specified by the plugin versus Jenkins core.
See link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/updating-parent/#understanding-requireupperbounddeps-failures-and-fixes[Understanding requireUpperBoundDeps failures and fixes] for more information.

In many cases, upper bounds dependencies errors are best resolved by updating the Jenkins core Bill of Materials and by using the Jenkins plugin Bill of Materials.

=== Update the Jenkins Core Bill of Materials (BOM)

Update the parent pom version with the following commands:

[source,bash]
----
mvn versions:update-parent
mvn clean verify
----

If the command reports an error that the `Project does not have a parent`, please configure `~/.m2/settings.xml` as noted in the link:/doc/developer/tutorial/prepare/[tutorial].

See the video below for a step by step guide to updating the parent pom.

.Update the parent pom
video::Fev8KfFsPZE[youtube, width=852, height=480,start=807]

== Jenkins plugin BOM

The plugin bill of materials (BOM) defines the versions of various plugins used by specific Jenkins versions.
The plugin bill of materials includes many commonly used plugins
and simplifies dependency management for plugins that depend on other plugins.

A plugin that tests its Pipeline implementation typically depends on several Pipeline plugins.
The plugin BOM provides Pipeline plugin version numbers so that the developer does not need to maintain the independent version numbers of the Pipeline plugins.

The plugin bill of materials is defined in the `dependencyManagement` section of your _pom.xml_ file.
To use the Jenkins plugin BOM in your plugin:

. Confirm that you are using the link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/updating-parent/[current parent pom] with the command `mvn versions:update-parent`
. Locate the most recent plugin bom version number on the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/bom/releases[plugin bom releases page]
. Copy the `dependencyManagement` section from the _pom.xml_ file in that directory
. Insert this `dependencyManagement` section into the _pom.xml_ file for your plugin
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependencyManagement>
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.jenkins.tools.bom</groupId>
            <artifactId>bom-2.452.x</artifactId>
            <!-- Latest version goes here -->
            <version>3761.vd922730f0fd2</version>
            <scope>import</scope>
            <type>pom</type>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
----
. Remove the `<version>` values from plugin dependencies in your plugin's _pom.xml_
. Rebuild your plugin to see if this solves your dependency issues.
  Many commonly used plugins are included in the plugin pom.
  However, not **all** plugins are included.
  You may need to iterate on removing `<version>` values from specific plugins

See the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/bom#readme[plugin BOM documentation] for further details.
The video below demonstrates how to add the plugin BOM to a Jenkins plugin.

.Simplify plugin dependency management with the plugin BOM
video::pk1gweLvcEI[youtube, width=852, height=480, start=1771]

== Dependabot

GitHub link:https://github.com/dependabot[Dependabot] can automate plugin dependency management.
Newly created plugins built from the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/archetypes/blob/master/.github/dependabot.yml[Jenkins plugin archetype] include Dependabot by default.

Existing plugins need to configure Dependabot in their existing plugin repository.
See the video below for an example that adds Dependabot to an existing plugin repository:

.Automate dependency management with Dependabot
video::2c8wK2jkcIA[youtube, width=852, height=480, start=980]
