---
layout: post
title: "Evolving Mission of Jenkins"
tags:
- jenkins-x
- evergreen
author: kohsuke
---

Lately, perhaps subtle but exciting changes are starting to happen in the Jenkins project.

The past few weeks have seen the birth of two new initiatives in Jenkins:
https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/tree/master/jep/300[Jenkins Essentials] and
https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/tree/master/jep/400[Jenkins X].  Each is
exciting in its own right, and I encourage interested parties to take a look at
their goals and missions and participate in them.  But in this post, I want to
discuss why together these two dots form an important arc, which actually
started in the introduction of Jenkins 2 and continued with Blue Ocean.


In Jenkins 2, we changed Jenkins so that it starts with richer functionality
and more sensible security setup, among other things.  This was the first step
in a new direction for Jenkins.  We changed our focus from “we’ll write plugins
and you figure out the rest” to “we’ll write plugins, we’ll assemble them, and
we’ll help you be more productive.”

Blue Ocean was another step on this journey.  We focused on important
continuous delivery use cases in Jenkins, and aimed to provide a great
user-experience for those use cases.  Aside from obvious productivity boost for
users, it also decidedly blended together feature areas that are internally
provided by a whole bunch of different plugins, but users see much less seam
between them.

Jenkins Essentials, which https://github.com/rtyler[R Tyler Croy] proposed in
recent weeks, is another step forward.  That project aims to take an even
bigger responsibility in keeping people’s Jenkins instances up and running.
Like Blue Ocean, Jenkins Essentials focuses on delivering a comprehensive
Jenkins user experience rather than a collection of unrelated plugins which
users have to figure out how to wire together.  It also creates an exciting
vehicle for contributors, in which we can develop and deliver features quite
differently, and more rapidly, than how we deliver them today.

Jenkins X, which was proposed by https://github.com/jstrachan[James Strachan] a
few weeks after Jenkins Essentials, is the latest point on this same arc.
Jenkins X brings a different aspect to building a solution — it focuses on a
specific vertical area, namely Kubernetes application development, and
drastically simplifies the software development in that domain by bringing
together Jenkins, a whole bunch of plugins, and an opinionated best practice of
how one should use Kubernetes.


Collectively, the arc that these efforts form aims to solve the most important
and consistent concerns for Jenkins users — ease of use, plugin complexity,
fear of upgrade, etc.

In the early days of Jenkins, it was up to each and every Jenkins admin to find
the right way to assemble pieces into a solution for their organizations, but
this hard work remained largely private.  Now, these newer projects are
bringing this back into the community.  They are making Jenkins more valuable
to existing users, and more approachable and useful to a whole new set of users
who are not currently using Jenkins.

From that perspective, I hope more projects like them will follow, pushing us
beyond “just writing plugins”, taking even bigger steps to make users
productive.  This is a little bit like how I watched Eclipse evolve from just a
Java IDE to an umbrella of projects.

Exciting times!
