content/solutions/github.adoc, before:

---
layout: solution
title: "Jenkins with GitHub"
---

Jenkins, itself link:https://github.com/jenkinsci[located on GitHub], has a
number of plugins for integrating into link:https://github.com[GitHub]. 
The primary avenues for integrating your Jenkins instance with GitHub are:

* "build integration" - using GitHub to trigger builds
* "authentication integration" - using GitHub as the source of authentication information to secure a Jenkins instance.

== Build integration

With the help of the plugin:git[Git plugin]
Jenkins can easily pull source code from any Git repository that the Jenkins
build node can access.

The plugin:github[GitHub plugin] extends
upon that integration further by providing improved bi-directional
integration with GitHub. Allowing you to set up a link:https://developer.github.com/webhooks/#service-hooks[Service
Hook] which will hit
your Jenkins instance every time a change is pushed to GitHub.


image::/images/solution-images/jenkins-github-services.png['Jenkins in the GitHub WebHooks/Services view', role=center]

Going the other direction, the GitHub plugin can also feed information back
into GitHub via the link:https://github.com/blog/1227-commit-status-api[commit status
API], more details
link:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14274293/show-current-state-of-jenkins-build-on-github-repo/26910986#26910986[here].

== Authenticating with GitHub

Using the plugin:github-oauth[GitHub Authentication plugin]
it is possible to use GitHub's own authentication scheme
for implementing authentication in your Jenkins instance.

The **plugin:github-oauth#GithubOAuthPlugin-Setup[setup guide]**
will help walk you through configuring the GitHub OAuth side, and your
Jenkins instance, to provide easy authentication/authorization for users.

image::/images/solution-images/jenkins-github-oauth-enable.png['Configuring "Global Security" to use GitHub', role=center]

Commit message:

update github solution page usage of "instance"

content/solutions/github.adoc, after:

---
layout: solution
title: "Jenkins with GitHub"
---

Jenkins, itself link:https://github.com/jenkinsci[located on GitHub], has a
number of plugins for integrating into link:https://github.com[GitHub]. 
The primary avenues for integrating your Jenkins deployment with GitHub are:

* "build integration" - using GitHub to trigger builds
* "authentication integration" - using GitHub as the source of authentication information to secure a Jenkins controller and its agents.

== Build integration

With the help of the plugin:git[Git plugin]
Jenkins can easily pull source code from any Git repository that the Jenkins
build node can access.

The plugin:github[GitHub plugin] extends
upon that integration further by providing improved bi-directional
integration with GitHub. Allowing you to set up a link:https://developer.github.com/webhooks/#service-hooks[Service
Hook] which will hit
your Jenkins controller every time a change is pushed to GitHub.


image::/images/solution-images/jenkins-github-services.png['Jenkins in the GitHub WebHooks/Services view', role=center]

Going the other direction, the GitHub plugin can also feed information back
into GitHub via the link:https://github.com/blog/1227-commit-status-api[commit status
API], more details
link:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14274293/show-current-state-of-jenkins-build-on-github-repo/26910986#26910986[here].

== Authenticating with GitHub

Using the plugin:github-oauth[GitHub Authentication plugin]
it is possible to use GitHub's own authentication scheme
for implementing authentication in your Jenkins controller.

The **plugin:github-oauth#GithubOAuthPlugin-Setup[setup guide]**
will help walk you through configuring the GitHub OAuth side, and your
Jenkins controller, to provide easy authentication/authorization for users.

image::/images/solution-images/jenkins-github-oauth-enable.png['Configuring "Global Security" to use GitHub', role=center]
