content/doc/tutorials/build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm.adoc, before:

---
layout: documentation
title: Build a Node.js and React app with npm
section: doc
---

:toc:
:toclevels: 3
:imagesdir: ../../book/resources
:tutorial-for: node


This tutorial shows you how to use Jenkins to orchestrate building a simple
https://nodejs.org/en/[Node.js] and https://reactjs.org/[React] application
with the https://www.npmjs.com/[Node Package Manager (npm)].

If you are a Node.js and React developer who is new to CI/CD concepts, or you
might be familiar with these concepts but don't know how to implement building
your application using Jenkins, then this tutorial is for you.

The simple Node.js and React application (which you'll obtain from a sample
repository on GitHub) generates a web page with the content "Welcome to React"
and is accompanied by a test to check that the application renders
satisfactorily.

*Duration:* This tutorial takes 20-40 minutes to complete (assuming you've
already met the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>> below).
The exact duration will depend on the speed of your machine and whether you've already installed `docker` and `docker compose`.

You can stop this tutorial at any point in time and continue from where you left
off.

Make sure you have link:https://git-scm.com/downloads[Git] installed locally.

include::doc/tutorials/_new_prerequisites.adoc[]
** link:https://git-scm.com/downloads[Git], and optionally link:https://desktop.github.com/[GitHub Desktop].


[[fork-sample-repository]]
[[fork-and-clone-the-sample-repository-on-github]]
=== Fork and clone the sample repository

Obtain the simple "Welcome to React" Node.js and React application from GitHub,
by forking the sample repository of the application's source code into your own
GitHub account and then cloning this fork locally.

. Ensure you are signed in to your GitHub account.
If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free one on the https://github.com/[GitHub website].
. Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-node-js-react-npm-app[`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.
If you need help with this process, refer to the https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/[Fork A Repo] documentation on the GitHub website for more information.
. Clone your forked `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository (on GitHub)
  locally to your machine. To begin this process, do either of the following
  (where `<your-username>` is the name of your user account on your operating
  system):
** If you have the GitHub Desktop app installed on your machine:
.. In GitHub, click the green *Clone or download* button on your forked
   repository, then *Open in Desktop*.
.. In GitHub Desktop, before clicking *Clone* on the *Clone a Repository* dialog
   box, ensure *Local Path* for:
*** macOS is `/Users/<your-username>/Documents/GitHub/simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
*** Linux is `/home/<your-username>/GitHub/simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
*** Windows is `C:\Users\<your-username>\Documents\GitHub\simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
** Otherwise:
.. Open up a terminal/command line prompt and `cd` to the appropriate directory
   on:
*** macOS - `/Users/<your-username>/Documents/GitHub/`
*** Linux - `/home/<your-username>/GitHub/`
*** Windows - `C:\Users\<your-username>\Documents\GitHub\` (although use a Git
    bash command line window as opposed to the usual Microsoft command prompt)
.. Run the following command to continue/complete cloning your forked repo: +
   `git clone \https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME/simple-node-js-react-npm-app` +
   where `YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME` is the name of your GitHub account.

=== Start your Jenkins instance

1. Obtain the latest Jenkins instance, customized for this tutorial, by cloning the link:https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials.git[quickstart-tutorials repository].
2. After cloning, navigate to the `quickstart-tutorials` directory and execute the command
+
----
docker compose --profile node up -d
----
to run the example.
3. Once the containers are running successfully (you can verify this with `docker compose ps`), the controller can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod].
GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.
You need to link it to your GitHub account so you can run the example in the cloud.
Utilize link:https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials[this link] to open a new browser tab with a GitPod workspace where you'll be able to start the Jenkins instance and run the rest of the tutorial.

Now, log in using the `admin` username and `admin` password.

=== Create your Pipeline project in Jenkins

. In Jenkins, select *New Item* under *Dashboard >* at the top left.
. Enter your new Pipeline project name, such as `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`, in *Enter an item name*.
. Scroll down if necessary and select *Pipeline*, then select *OK* at the end of the page.
. (Optional) Enter a Pipeline *Description*.
. Select *Pipeline* on the left pane.
. Select *Definition* and then choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
This option instructs Jenkins to obtain your Pipeline from the source control management (SCM), which is your forked Git repository.
. Choose *Git* from the options in *SCM*.
. Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*.
This URL can be found when selecting the green *Code* button in the main page of your GitHub repo.
. Select *Save* at the end of the page.
You're now ready to create a `Jenkinsfile` to check into your locally cloned Git repository.


=== Create your initial Pipeline as a Jenkinsfile

You're now ready to create your Pipeline that will automate building your Node.js and React application in Jenkins.
Your Pipeline is created as a `Jenkinsfile`, which is committed to your locally cloned Git repository (`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`) and then pushed to GitHub.

This is the foundation of "Pipeline-as-Code", which treats the continuous delivery pipeline as a part of the application to be versioned and reviewed like any other code.
Read more about Pipeline and what a Jenkinsfile is in the link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipeline] and link:/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile[Using a Jenkinsfile] sections of the User Handbook.

First, create an initial Pipeline to download a Node Docker image and run it as
a Docker container (which will build your simple Node.js and React application).
Also add a "Build" stage to the Pipeline that begins orchestrating this whole
process.

. Using your favorite text editor or IDE, create and save new text file with the
  name `Jenkinsfile` at the root of your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
  Git repository.
. Copy the following Declarative Pipeline code and paste it into your empty
  `Jenkinsfile`:
+
[source,groovy,subs="attributes+"]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh 'npm install' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#stage[`stage`] (directive) called `Build` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`] step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) executes the `npm` command to ensure that all dependencies required to run your application have been downloaded to the `node_modules` workspace directory.

. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository.
Within the  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add initial Jenkinsfile"` +
 and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. Now select *Build Now* on the left pane of your Pipeline project in Jenkins.
After making a clone of your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository itself, Jenkins:

. Initially queues the project to be run on the agent.
. Runs the `Build` stage defined in the `Jenkinsfile` on the agent.

During this time, npm downloads and installs many artifacts necessary to build your node/js application, which are ultimately stored in Jenkins' local `npm` repository.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/npm-install-logs.png[alt="npm install",width=100%]
You can now select *#1* to see the details of the build.
You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue, and how much time it took to run.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/build-details.png[alt="Build details",width=100%]

In the left navigation pane, you can select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

If you select the *Build* stage, you will see more information about the stage, including the output of the `npm` command if you select the green `npm install` section.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/build-stage.png[alt="Build stage",width=100%]

You can now select *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* (if that's the name you chose for your pipeline) on the top left to return to your pipeline main page.

=== Add a test stage to your Pipeline

. Go back to your text editor/IDE and ensure your `Jenkinsfile` is open.
. Copy and paste the following Declarative Pipeline syntax immediately under the `Build` stage:
+
[source,groovy]
----
        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh'
            }
        }
----
so that you end up with:
+
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'npm install'
            }
        }
        stage('Test') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#stage[`stage`] (directive) called
`Test` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) runs the
shell script `test.sh` located in the `jenkins/scripts` directory from the root
of the `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository. Explanations about what this
script does are covered in the `test.sh` file itself. As a general principle,
it's a good idea to keep your Pipeline code (i.e. the `Jenkinsfile`) as tidy as
possible and place more complex build scripting steps into separate shell script
files like the `test.sh` file. This ultimately facilitates the maintenance of
your Pipeline, especially if it gains more complexity.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Test' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. In Jenkins, go back to *Dashboard* if necessary, then *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* and launch another build thanks to *Build Now*.
. After a while, a new column *Test* appear in the *Stage View*.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/test-stage.png[alt="Test stage",width=100%]

. You can select*#2* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
You will then see the details of the build.
+
If Docker has not restarted since you last ran the Pipeline <<create-your-initial-pipeline-as-a-jenkinsfile,above>>, then no `npm` artifacts are downloaded during the "Build" stage.
Therefore, running your Pipeline this subsequent time should be much faster.

You can now select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview-test.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

Notice the additional "Test" stage.
You can select the "Test" stage checkmark to access the output from that stage.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/test-stage-output.png[alt="Test stage output",width=100%]

=== Add a final deliver stage to your Pipeline

. Go back to your text editor/IDE and ensure your `Jenkinsfile` is open.
. Copy and paste the following Declarative Pipeline syntax immediately under the
  `Test` stage of your `Jenkinsfile`:
+
[source,groovy]
----
        stage('Deliver') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh'
                input message: 'Finished using the web site? (Click "Proceed" to continue)'
                sh './jenkins/scripts/kill.sh'
            }
        }
----
so that you end up with:
+
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'npm install'
            }
        }
        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh'
            }
        }
        stage('Deliver') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh' // <2>
                input message: 'Finished using the web site? (Click "Proceed" to continue)' // <3>
                sh './jenkins/scripts/kill.sh' // <4>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a new stage called `Deliver` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) runs the
shell script `deliver.sh` located in the `jenkins/scripts` directory from the
root of the `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository. Explanations about what
this script does are covered in the `deliver.sh` file itself.
<3> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/pipeline-input-step/#code-input-code-wait-for-interactive-input[`input`]
step (provided by the link:/doc/pipeline/steps/pipeline-input-step[Pipeline:
Input Step] plugin) pauses the running build and prompts the user (with a custom
message) to proceed or abort.
<4> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step runs the shell script `kill.sh`, also located in the `jenkins/scripts`
directory. Explanations about what this script does are covered in the `kill.sh`
file itself.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Deliver' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. In Jenkins, sign in if necessary, go back to the *Dashboard* and then navigate to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`*.
Alternatively, you can go directly to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`* depending on where you're starting from.
. Select *Build Now* on the left.
You should see after a while a new column *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage.png[alt="Deliver stage",width=100%]

Select *#3* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
Select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview-deliver.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

. Select the *Deliver* stage.+
You will then see a green part displaying *./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh*, which represents the successful execution of the `deliver.sh` script.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-script.png[alt="Deliver stage pauses for user input",width=100%]
. Ensure you are viewing the "Deliver" stage (click it if necessary), then click
  the green *`./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh`* step to expand its content and
  scroll down until you see the `\http://localhost:3000` link.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage-opened-deliver-sh-step.png[alt="Deliver
stage output only",width=100%]
. Click the `\http://localhost:3000` link to view your Node.js and React
  application running (in development mode) in a new web browser tab. You should
  see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React* on it. +
. When you are finished viewing the page/site, select the *#3* link at the top of the page, or the number that represents your last build.
On the left, look for *Paused for Input*.
You should see two buttons, *Proceed* and *Abort*.
Select the *Process* link to complete the Pipeline's execution.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage-runs-successfully.png[alt="Deliver stage runs successfully",width=100%]
You can now select *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* on the top left, and then on Stages at the left.
It will list your previous Pipeline runs in reverse chronological order.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-runs.png[alt="All previous runs displayed",width=100%]


=== Wrapping up

Well done!
You've just used Jenkins to build a simple Node.js and React application with npm!

The "Build", "Test" and "Deliver" stages you created above are the basis for building more complex Node.js and React applications in Jenkins, as well as Node.js and React applications that integrate with other technology stacks.

Because Jenkins is extremely extensible, it can be modified and configured to handle practically any aspect of build orchestration and automation.

To learn more about what Jenkins can do, check out:

* The link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials overview] page for other introductory
  tutorials.
* The link:/doc/book[User Handbook] for more detailed information about using
  Jenkins, such as link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipelines] (in particular
  link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax[Pipeline syntax]) and the
  link:/doc/book/blueocean[Blue Ocean] interface.
* The link:/node[Jenkins blog] for the latest events, other tutorials and
  updates.


'''
++++
include::_partials/_feedback-footer.html[]
++++

Commit message:

fix(tutorials): Improve cleanup instructions and add explanation for --remove-orphans option (#7415)

content/doc/tutorials/build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm.adoc, after:

---
layout: documentation
title: Build a Node.js and React app with npm
section: doc
---

:toc:
:toclevels: 3
:imagesdir: ../../book/resources
:tutorial-for: node


This tutorial shows you how to use Jenkins to orchestrate building a simple
https://nodejs.org/en/[Node.js] and https://reactjs.org/[React] application
with the https://www.npmjs.com/[Node Package Manager (npm)].

If you are a Node.js and React developer who is new to CI/CD concepts, or you
might be familiar with these concepts but don't know how to implement building
your application using Jenkins, then this tutorial is for you.

The simple Node.js and React application (which you'll obtain from a sample
repository on GitHub) generates a web page with the content "Welcome to React"
and is accompanied by a test to check that the application renders
satisfactorily.

*Duration:* This tutorial takes 20-40 minutes to complete (assuming you've
already met the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>> below).
The exact duration will depend on the speed of your machine and whether you've already installed `docker` and `docker compose`.

You can stop this tutorial at any point in time and continue from where you left
off.

Make sure you have link:https://git-scm.com/downloads[Git] installed locally.

include::doc/tutorials/_new_prerequisites.adoc[]
** link:https://git-scm.com/downloads[Git], and optionally link:https://desktop.github.com/[GitHub Desktop].


[[fork-sample-repository]]
[[fork-and-clone-the-sample-repository-on-github]]
=== Fork and clone the sample repository

Obtain the simple "Welcome to React" Node.js and React application from GitHub,
by forking the sample repository of the application's source code into your own
GitHub account and then cloning this fork locally.

. Ensure you are signed in to your GitHub account.
If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free one on the https://github.com/[GitHub website].
. Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-node-js-react-npm-app[`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.
If you need help with this process, refer to the https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/[Fork A Repo] documentation on the GitHub website for more information.
. Clone your forked `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository (on GitHub)
  locally to your machine. To begin this process, do either of the following
  (where `<your-username>` is the name of your user account on your operating
  system):
** If you have the GitHub Desktop app installed on your machine:
.. In GitHub, click the green *Clone or download* button on your forked
   repository, then *Open in Desktop*.
.. In GitHub Desktop, before clicking *Clone* on the *Clone a Repository* dialog
   box, ensure *Local Path* for:
*** macOS is `/Users/<your-username>/Documents/GitHub/simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
*** Linux is `/home/<your-username>/GitHub/simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
*** Windows is `C:\Users\<your-username>\Documents\GitHub\simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
** Otherwise:
.. Open up a terminal/command line prompt and `cd` to the appropriate directory
   on:
*** macOS - `/Users/<your-username>/Documents/GitHub/`
*** Linux - `/home/<your-username>/GitHub/`
*** Windows - `C:\Users\<your-username>\Documents\GitHub\` (although use a Git
    bash command line window as opposed to the usual Microsoft command prompt)
.. Run the following command to continue/complete cloning your forked repo: +
   `git clone \https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME/simple-node-js-react-npm-app` +
   where `YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME` is the name of your GitHub account.

=== Start your Jenkins instance

1. Obtain the latest Jenkins instance, customized for this tutorial, by cloning the link:https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials.git[quickstart-tutorials repository].
2. After cloning, navigate to the `quickstart-tutorials` directory and execute the command
+
----
docker compose --profile node up -d
----
to run the example.
3. Once the containers are running successfully (you can verify this with `docker compose ps`), the controller can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod].
GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.
You need to link it to your GitHub account so you can run the example in the cloud.
Utilize link:https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials[this link] to open a new browser tab with a GitPod workspace where you'll be able to start the Jenkins instance and run the rest of the tutorial.

Now, log in using the `admin` username and `admin` password.

=== Create your Pipeline project in Jenkins

. In Jenkins, select *New Item* under *Dashboard >* at the top left.
. Enter your new Pipeline project name, such as `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`, in *Enter an item name*.
. Scroll down if necessary and select *Pipeline*, then select *OK* at the end of the page.
. (Optional) Enter a Pipeline *Description*.
. Select *Pipeline* on the left pane.
. Select *Definition* and then choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
This option instructs Jenkins to obtain your Pipeline from the source control management (SCM), which is your forked Git repository.
. Choose *Git* from the options in *SCM*.
. Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*.
This URL can be found when selecting the green *Code* button in the main page of your GitHub repo.
. Select *Save* at the end of the page.
You're now ready to create a `Jenkinsfile` to check into your locally cloned Git repository.


=== Create your initial Pipeline as a Jenkinsfile

You're now ready to create your Pipeline that will automate building your Node.js and React application in Jenkins.
Your Pipeline is created as a `Jenkinsfile`, which is committed to your locally cloned Git repository (`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`) and then pushed to GitHub.

This is the foundation of "Pipeline-as-Code", which treats the continuous delivery pipeline as a part of the application to be versioned and reviewed like any other code.
Read more about Pipeline and what a Jenkinsfile is in the link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipeline] and link:/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile[Using a Jenkinsfile] sections of the User Handbook.

First, create an initial Pipeline to download a Node Docker image and run it as
a Docker container (which will build your simple Node.js and React application).
Also add a "Build" stage to the Pipeline that begins orchestrating this whole
process.

. Using your favorite text editor or IDE, create and save new text file with the
  name `Jenkinsfile` at the root of your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app`
  Git repository.
. Copy the following Declarative Pipeline code and paste it into your empty
  `Jenkinsfile`:
+
[source,groovy,subs="attributes+"]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh 'npm install' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#stage[`stage`] (directive) called `Build` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`] step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) executes the `npm` command to ensure that all dependencies required to run your application have been downloaded to the `node_modules` workspace directory.

. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository.
Within the  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add initial Jenkinsfile"` +
 and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. Now select *Build Now* on the left pane of your Pipeline project in Jenkins.
After making a clone of your local `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository itself, Jenkins:

. Initially queues the project to be run on the agent.
. Runs the `Build` stage defined in the `Jenkinsfile` on the agent.

During this time, npm downloads and installs many artifacts necessary to build your node/js application, which are ultimately stored in Jenkins' local `npm` repository.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/npm-install-logs.png[alt="npm install",width=100%]
You can now select *#1* to see the details of the build.
You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue, and how much time it took to run.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/build-details.png[alt="Build details",width=100%]

In the left navigation pane, you can select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

If you select the *Build* stage, you will see more information about the stage, including the output of the `npm` command if you select the green `npm install` section.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/build-stage.png[alt="Build stage",width=100%]

You can now select *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* (if that's the name you chose for your pipeline) on the top left to return to your pipeline main page.

=== Add a test stage to your Pipeline

. Go back to your text editor/IDE and ensure your `Jenkinsfile` is open.
. Copy and paste the following Declarative Pipeline syntax immediately under the `Build` stage:
+
[source,groovy]
----
        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh'
            }
        }
----
so that you end up with:
+
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'npm install'
            }
        }
        stage('Test') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh' // <2>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#stage[`stage`] (directive) called
`Test` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) runs the
shell script `test.sh` located in the `jenkins/scripts` directory from the root
of the `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository. Explanations about what this
script does are covered in the `test.sh` file itself. As a general principle,
it's a good idea to keep your Pipeline code (i.e. the `Jenkinsfile`) as tidy as
possible and place more complex build scripting steps into separate shell script
files like the `test.sh` file. This ultimately facilitates the maintenance of
your Pipeline, especially if it gains more complexity.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Test' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. In Jenkins, go back to *Dashboard* if necessary, then *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* and launch another build thanks to *Build Now*.
. After a while, a new column *Test* appear in the *Stage View*.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/test-stage.png[alt="Test stage",width=100%]

. You can select*#2* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
You will then see the details of the build.
+
If Docker has not restarted since you last ran the Pipeline <<create-your-initial-pipeline-as-a-jenkinsfile,above>>, then no `npm` artifacts are downloaded during the "Build" stage.
Therefore, running your Pipeline this subsequent time should be much faster.

You can now select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview-test.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

Notice the additional "Test" stage.
You can select the "Test" stage checkmark to access the output from that stage.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/test-stage-output.png[alt="Test stage output",width=100%]

=== Add a final deliver stage to your Pipeline

. Go back to your text editor/IDE and ensure your `Jenkinsfile` is open.
. Copy and paste the following Declarative Pipeline syntax immediately under the
  `Test` stage of your `Jenkinsfile`:
+
[source,groovy]
----
        stage('Deliver') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh'
                input message: 'Finished using the web site? (Click "Proceed" to continue)'
                sh './jenkins/scripts/kill.sh'
            }
        }
----
so that you end up with:
+
[source,groovy]
----
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                sh 'npm install'
            }
        }
        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/test.sh'
            }
        }
        stage('Deliver') { // <1>
            steps {
                sh './jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh' // <2>
                input message: 'Finished using the web site? (Click "Proceed" to continue)' // <3>
                sh './jenkins/scripts/kill.sh' // <4>
            }
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Defines a new stage called `Deliver` that appears on the Jenkins UI.
<2> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step (of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#steps[`steps`] section) runs the
shell script `deliver.sh` located in the `jenkins/scripts` directory from the
root of the `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` repository. Explanations about what
this script does are covered in the `deliver.sh` file itself.
<3> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/pipeline-input-step/#code-input-code-wait-for-interactive-input[`input`]
step (provided by the link:/doc/pipeline/steps/pipeline-input-step[Pipeline:
Input Step] plugin) pauses the running build and prompts the user (with a custom
message) to proceed or abort.
<4> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/workflow-durable-task-step/#code-sh-code-shell-script[`sh`]
step runs the shell script `kill.sh`, also located in the `jenkins/scripts`
directory. Explanations about what this script does are covered in the `kill.sh`
file itself.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-node-js-react-npm-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Deliver' stage"` +
and finally +
`git push` to push your changes to your forked repository on GitHub, so it can be picked up by Jenkins.

. In Jenkins, sign in if necessary, go back to the *Dashboard* and then navigate to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`*.
Alternatively, you can go directly to *`simple-node-js-react-npm-app`* depending on where you're starting from.
. Select *Build Now* on the left.
You should see after a while a new column *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage.png[alt="Deliver stage",width=100%]

Select *#3* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*.
Select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-overview-deliver.png[alt="Pipeline overview",width=100%]

. Select the *Deliver* stage.+
You will then see a green part displaying *./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh*, which represents the successful execution of the `deliver.sh` script.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-script.png[alt="Deliver stage pauses for user input",width=100%]
. Ensure you are viewing the "Deliver" stage (click it if necessary), then click
  the green *`./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh`* step to expand its content and
  scroll down until you see the `\http://localhost:3000` link.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage-opened-deliver-sh-step.png[alt="Deliver
stage output only",width=100%]
. Click the `\http://localhost:3000` link to view your Node.js and React
  application running (in development mode) in a new web browser tab. You should
  see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React* on it. +
. When you are finished viewing the page/site, select the *#3* link at the top of the page, or the number that represents your last build.
On the left, look for *Paused for Input*.
You should see two buttons, *Proceed* and *Abort*.
Select the *Process* link to complete the Pipeline's execution.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/deliver-stage-runs-successfully.png[alt="Deliver stage runs successfully",width=100%]
You can now select *simple-node-js-react-npm-app* on the top left, and then on Stages at the left.
It will list your previous Pipeline runs in reverse chronological order.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/node/pipeline-runs.png[alt="All previous runs displayed",width=100%]


=== Wrapping up

Well done!
You've just used Jenkins to build a simple Node.js and React application with npm!

The "Build", "Test" and "Deliver" stages you created above are the basis for building more complex Node.js and React applications in Jenkins, as well as Node.js and React applications that integrate with other technology stacks.

Because Jenkins is extremely extensible, it can be modified and configured to handle practically any aspect of build orchestration and automation.

To learn more about what Jenkins can do, check out:

* The link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials overview] page for other introductory
  tutorials.
* The link:/doc/book[User Handbook] for more detailed information about using
  Jenkins, such as link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipelines] (in particular
  link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax[Pipeline syntax]) and the
  link:/doc/book/blueocean[Blue Ocean] interface.
* The link:/node[Jenkins blog] for the latest events, other tutorials and
  updates.

=== Cleaning Up Your Environment

After completing the tutorial, it's important to clean up your environment to prevent interference with other tutorials you might try later.

To stop the containers and remove associated volumes:

[source,bash]
----
docker compose --profile node down -v --remove-orphans
----

This command ensures a clean slate for your next project.

[NOTE]
====
The `--remove-orphans` option instructs Docker Compose to remove any containers that are not defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file but are labeled as belonging to the project.
This helps in cleaning up any services that might have been started independently but are considered part of the project.
====

'''
++++
include::_partials/_feedback-footer.html[]
++++
