---
layout: post
title: "Introducing Tutorials in the Jenkins User Documentation"
tags:
- tutorial
- blueocean
- pipeline
author: gilesgas
---

Regular perusers of the link:/doc[Jenkins User Documentation] may have noticed
the presence of the *Tutorials* part (between the *Guided Tour* and *User
Handbook*) that appeared in the last couple of months and gradually began to get
populated with much of my recent work, writing Jenkins tutorials.

My name's Giles and I've been a technical writer in the software development
field for several years now. I've always been passionate about technical writing
and more recently, the technologies that go into developing written content and
automating its generation - like Jenkins! I was a former Atlassian and recently
joined CloudBees as a Senior Technical Writer, working remotely from the "Sydney
Office", with my current focus on the Jenkins User Documentation.


== Why tutorials?

My exposure to Jenkins and its usage over the years has been patchy at best.
During this time, however, I've had some degree of experience as a user of
various continuous delivery (CD) tools like Jenkins and am reasonably familiar
with the advantages these tools can offer software development teams.

I've also found that while many software developers are familiar with the
broader concept of "developer operations" (or simply "devops"), fewer seem
familiar with the concepts of CD and related tools to facilitate devops within
organizations.

The CD process is based on the fundamental flow of *building the application* >
*testing it* > *delivering it*, where typically:

* The *building* part involves compiling the application and/or ensuring all
  necessary libraries and dependencies are in place for the application to run
  as intended.
* The *testing* part involves testing the built application with automated tests
  to ensure that changes implemented by developers function as expected.
* The *delivering* part involves packaging or presenting the application in a
  way that can be delivered to customers or other users for any kind of purpose.

Now, as one of the major contributors to the Jenkins User Documentation (and
faced with a reasonably steep learning curve), it quickly became apparent about
the lack of accessible documentation to hand-hold people relatively new to
Jenkins through this CD process. I couldn't find anything in the Jenkins User
Documentation to demonstrate how Jenkins implements this process on a simple
app that delivers an end result.

With the guidance and assistance of helpful colleagues, I therefore decided to
embark on creating a series of Jenkins tutorials to help fill these
documentation and knowledge gaps. These tutorials are based on Daniele Procida's
description of how tutorials should be presented in his blog post
"link:https://www.divio.com/en/blog/documentation/[What nobody tells you about
documentation]").


=== Introductory tutorials

The first set of tutorials on the link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials overview] page
demonstrate how to implement this fundamental CD process in Jenkins on a simple
application for a given technology stack.

So far, there's one for
link:/doc/tutorials/build-a-java-app-with-maven/[Java with Maven] and another
for link:/doc/tutorials/build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/[Node.js and
React with npm]. Another for Python will be added to this list in the near
future.

These tutorials define your application's entire CD process (i.e. your Pipeline)
in a `Jenkinsfile`, whose Groovy-like Declarative Pipeline syntax is checked in
to your Git source repository. Managing your Pipeline with your application's
source code like this forms the fundamentals of "Pipeline as code".

The *Introductory tutorials* also cover how to use some powerful features of
Jenkins, like link:/doc/tutorials/create-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean/[Blue Ocean],
which makes it easy to connect to an existing cloud, web or locally hosted Git
repository and create your Pipeline with limited knowledge of Pipeline syntax.


=== Advanced tutorials

Also soon to be released will be the first *Advanced tutorial* on building
multibranch Pipelines in Jenkins. This tutorial takes the "Pipeline as code"
concept to a new level, where a single `Jenkinsfile` (defining the entire CD
process across all branches of your application's Git repository) consists of
multiple stages which are selectively executed based on the branch that Jenkins
is building.

Additional tutorials that demonstrate more advanced features of Jenkins and how
to manage your Pipelines with greater sophistication and flexibility will be
added to this section in future.


== Summing up

You can access all currently available tutorials from the
link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials overview] page in the Jenkins User Documentation.
It's worthwhile checking that page from time to time as it'll be updated
whenever a new tutorial is published.

Also, if you have any suggestions for tutorials or other content you'd like to
see in the documentation, please post your suggestions in the
link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[jenkinsci/docs gitter channel].

[.boxshadow]
image:/images/post-images/2017-11/sydney-office-team.jpg[The "Sydney Office"
team,width=80%,role=center] +
_The Sydney Office team meeting at Carriageworks - from left to right, Giles
Gaskell, Nicholae Pascu, Michael Neale and James Dumay_
