content/blog/2019/02/2019-02-01-windows-installers.adoc, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Windows Installer Updates"
tags:
- windows
- platform-sig
- installers
author: slide_o_mix
---

The Windows Installer for Jenkins has been around for many years as a way for users to install a Jenkins controller on Windows as a service. 
Since it's initial development, it has not received a lot of updates or features, but that is about to change.

First, let's take a look at the current installer experience.

### Step 1

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_1.png[Installer Startup, role=center]

This is the default look and feel for a Windows Installer using the link:https://wixtoolset.org[WiX Toolset], not very pretty and doesn't give 
much branding information as to what the installer is for.

### Step 2

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_2.png[Installation Directory, role=center]

Again, not much branding information.

### Step 3

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_3.png[Install It, role=center]

The installer in general does not give many options for installing Jenkins, other than selecting the installation location.

## Issues

The current installer has a few issues that the Platform SIG wanted to fix in a new install experience for users.

 1. The installer only supports 32-bit installations.
 2. The user could not select ports or user accounts to run the service on.
 3. The installer bundled a 32-bit version of the Java runtime instead of using a pre-existing JRE
 4. The installer did not support the experimental support in Jenkins for Java 11
 5. The JENKINS_HOME directory was not placed in a good spot for modern Windows
 6. There is no branding in the installer.
 
## Road Forward

With the experimental Jenkins Windows Installer, most of these issues have been resolved!

 1. The installer will only support 64-bit systems going forward. This is the vast majority of Windows systems these days, 
    so this will help more users install Jenkins using the installer package.
 2. The user is now able to enter user information for the service and select the port that Jenkins will use and verify that the port is available.
 3. The installer no longer bundles a JRE, but will search for a compatible JRE on the system. If the user wants to use a different JRE, they can specify during install.
 4. The installer has support for running with a Java 11 JRE, including the components listed on the link:/blog/2018/12/14/java11-preview-availability/[Java 11 Preview Page].
 5. the JENKINS_HOME directory is placed in the LocalAppData directory for the user that the service will run as, this aligns with modern Windows file system layouts.
 6. The installer has been updated with branding to make it look nicer and provide a better user experience. 
 
## Screenshots

Below are screenshots of the new installer sequence:

### Step 1

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_1.png[Installer Startup, role=center]

The Jenkins logo is now a prominent part of the UI for the installer.

### Step 2

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_2.png[Installation Directory, role=center]

The Jenkins logo and name are now in the header during all phases of the installer.

### Step 3

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_3.png[Account Selection, role=center]

The installer now allows you to specify the username/password for the account to run as and checks that the account has LogonAsService rights.

### Step 4

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_4.png[Port Selection, role=center]

The installer also allows you to specify the port that Jenkins should run on and will not continue until a valid port is entered and tested.

### Step 5

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_5.png[JRE Selection, role=center]

Instead of bundling a JRE, the installer now searches for a compatible JRE on the system (JRE 8 is the current search). If you want to use a different
JRE on the system than the one found by the installer, you can browse and specify it. Only JRE 8 and JRE 11 runtimes are supported. The installer will
automatically add the necessary arguments and additional jar files for running under Java 11 if the selected JRE is found to be version 11.

### Step 6

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_6.png[Install It, role=center]

All of the items that users can enter in the installer should be overridable on the command line for automated deployment as well. The full list of properties that
can be overridden will be available soon.

## Next Steps

The new installer is under review by the members of the Platform SIG, but we need people to test the installer and give feedback. If you are interested in testing 
the new installer, please join the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_platform-sig:gitter.im[Platform SIG gitter room] for more information.

There are still some things that are being researched and implemented in the new installer (e.g., keeping port and other selections when doing an upgrade), but it is
getting close to release.

In addition to updates to the MSI based Windows installer, the Platform SIG is working on taking over the link:https://chocolatey.org/packages/jenkins[Chocolatey Jenkins package] and 
releasing a version for each update.

Commit message:

Added recommended way and Local way to install jenkin

content/blog/2019/02/2019-02-01-windows-installers.adoc, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Windows Installer Updates"
tags:
- windows
- platform-sig
- installers
author: slide_o_mix
---

The Windows Installer for Jenkins has been around for many years as a way for users to install a Jenkins controller on Windows as a service. 
Since it's initial development, it has not received a lot of updates or features, but that is about to change.

First, let's take a look at the current installer experience.

### Step 1

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_1.png[Installer Startup, role=center]

This is the default look and feel for a Windows Installer using the link:https://wixtoolset.org[WiX Toolset], not very pretty and doesn't give 
much branding information as to what the installer is for.

### Step 2

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_2.png[Installation Directory, role=center]

Again, not much branding information.

### Step 3

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/old_installer_3.png[Install It, role=center]

The installer in general does not give many options for installing Jenkins, other than selecting the installation location.

## Issues

The current installer has a few issues that the Platform SIG wanted to fix in a new install experience for users.

 1. The installer only supports 32-bit installations.
 2. The user could not select ports or user accounts to run the service on.
 3. The installer bundled a 32-bit version of the Java runtime instead of using a pre-existing JRE
 4. The installer did not support the experimental support in Jenkins for Java 11
 5. The JENKINS_HOME directory was not placed in a good spot for modern Windows
 6. There is no branding in the installer.
 
## Road Forward

With the experimental Jenkins Windows Installer, most of these issues have been resolved!

 1. The installer will only support 64-bit systems going forward. This is the vast majority of Windows systems these days, 
    so this will help more users install Jenkins using the installer package.
 2. The user is now able to enter user information for the service and select the port that Jenkins will use and verify that the port is available.
 3. The installer no longer bundles a JRE, but will search for a compatible JRE on the system. If the user wants to use a different JRE, they can specify during install.
 4. The installer has support for running with a Java 11 JRE, including the components listed on the link:/blog/2018/12/14/java11-preview-availability/[Java 11 Preview Page].
 5. the JENKINS_HOME directory is placed in the LocalAppData directory for the user that the service will run as, this aligns with modern Windows file system layouts.
 6. The installer has been updated with branding to make it look nicer and provide a better user experience. 
 
## Screenshots

Below are screenshots of the new installer sequence:

### Step 1

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_1.png[Installer Startup, role=center]

The Jenkins logo is now a prominent part of the UI for the installer.

### Step 2

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_2.png[Installation Directory, role=center]

The Jenkins logo and name are now in the header during all phases of the installer.

### Step 3: Service logon credentials[Recommended]::

Option 1: When Installing Jenkins, it is recommended to install and run Jenkins as an independent
Windows service using a *local or domain user*, as it is much safer than running Jenkins
using *LocalSystem(Windows equivalent of root)* which will grant Jenkins full access
to your machine and services.

To run Jenkins service using a *local or domain user*, specify the domain user name and
password with which you want to run Jenkins,
click on *Test Credentials* to test your domain credentials and click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-logon-credentials.png[alt="Jenkins Service Logon Credentials",width=80%]

[NOTE]
====
The user account running Jenkins requires the `LogonAsService` permission to run Jenkins as a service.
====

If you get *Invalid Logon* Error pop-up while trying to test your credentials,
follow the steps explained <<invalid-service-logon-credentials,here>> to resolve it.

OR

Option 2: Run as LocalSystem (not recommended for production - has excessive privileges).
image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_3.png[Account Selection, role=center]

The installer now allows you to specify the username/password for the account to run as and checks that the account has LogonAsService rights.

### Step 4

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_4.png[Port Selection, role=center]

The installer also allows you to specify the port that Jenkins should run on and will not continue until a valid port is entered and tested.

### Step 5

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_5.png[JRE Selection, role=center]

Instead of bundling a JRE, the installer now searches for a compatible JRE on the system (JRE 8 is the current search). If you want to use a different
JRE on the system than the one found by the installer, you can browse and specify it. Only JRE 8 and JRE 11 runtimes are supported. The installer will
automatically add the necessary arguments and additional jar files for running under Java 11 if the selected JRE is found to be version 11.

### Step 6

image:/images/post-images/2019-02-01-windows-installer/new_installer_6.png[Install It, role=center]

All of the items that users can enter in the installer should be overridable on the command line for automated deployment as well. The full list of properties that
can be overridden will be available soon.

## Next Steps

The new installer is under review by the members of the Platform SIG, but we need people to test the installer and give feedback. If you are interested in testing 
the new installer, please join the link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkinsci_platform-sig:gitter.im[Platform SIG gitter room] for more information.

There are still some things that are being researched and implemented in the new installer (e.g., keeping port and other selections when doing an upgrade), but it is
getting close to release.

In addition to updates to the MSI based Windows installer, the Platform SIG is working on taking over the link:https://chocolatey.org/packages/jenkins[Chocolatey Jenkins package] and 
releasing a version for each update.
