content/sigs/docs/gsod/ideas.adoc, before:

---
layout: simplepage
title: "Google Season of Docs Ideas"
section: gsod
---

image:/images/gsod/gsod.png[Google Season of Docs, role=center, float=right]

The https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/[Google Season of Docs (GSoD)]
program brings together open source and technical writers communities for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
GSoD in Jenkins is organized by the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation special interest group].

== Project ideas

We invite technical writers to contribute to a major documentation update effort being coordinated in the link:/sigs/docs/[Documentation SIG].
It includes a number of link:/sigs/docs/#ongoing-projects[ongoing projects].
Technical writers are welcome to make their proposals in any area of the Jenkins documentation.
We encourage proposals based on a technical writer's expertise and interests.

[frame="topbot",grid="all",options="header",cols="30%,15%,55%"]
|=========================================================
|Project idea | Keywords | Description and links

| Create new solution pages for Jenkins use-cases
| AsciiDoc, Guide
| Jenkins project has several link:/solutions/[solution pages] for various use-cases.
  We invite technical writers to create new solution pages for various use-cases (e.g. Documentation as code, Continuous Deployment, Static Analysis)
  or technologies (Git, GitLab, Kubernetes, etc.).
  Existing pages were created several years ago, and they could also be updated.
  There are a lot of materials available on the web, but having dedicated solution pages could help users to discover such materials.
  link:/sigs/docs/#solution-pages[More info]

| Plugin documentation migration and update
| Markdown, GitHub, Plugins, Rewrite, Copy-editing
| Currently we are link:/doc/developer/publishing/wiki-page/#migrating-from-wiki-to-github[migrating our plugin documentation] from Jenkins Wiki to GitHub,
  see link:/blog/2019/10/21/plugin-docs-on-github/[this blog post] for announcement.
  We have already moved hundreds of pages, but there are hundreds of pages remaining.
  Migration itself can be done with automated tools we provide, but the documentation usually needs a significant update due to new features.
  We invite technical writers to select an area (e.g. "plugins for Docker"), and work closely with plugin maintainers to migrate and update documentation in such an area.
  link:/sigs/docs/#plugin-documentation-on-github[More Info]

| Jenkins user documentation reorganization and update
| AsciiDoc, Guide, Rewrite
| Jenkins user topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook], and are frequently received to improve the user documentation.
Common improvement themes include adding pipeline examples with each of the pipeline steps and additional tutorials for new users.
The main aim of this project would be to  restructure content to make it more discoverable and easy to read.
link:/sigs/docs/#user-guide[More info]

|=========================================================

Commit message:

update GSoD status and remove non-working links

content/sigs/docs/gsod/ideas.adoc, after:

---
layout: simplepage
title: "Google Season of Docs Ideas"
section: gsod
---

image:/images/gsod/gsod.png[Google Season of Docs, role=center, float=right]

The https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/[Google Season of Docs (GSoD)]
program brings together open source and technical writers communities for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
GSoD in Jenkins is organized by the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation special interest group].

NOTE: The Google Summer of Docs program has concluded as of May 2025.
This conclusion was originally announced through a link:https://groups.google.com/g/google-summer-of-code-mentors-list/c/t2LIAn1NCEQ/m/sfww4qe-EAAJ[Google Summer of Code user group] along with links to various resources from the program.
Additional information will be made available at a later time through the link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/[Google Open Source Blog].

== Project ideas

We invite technical writers to contribute to a major documentation update effort being coordinated in the link:/sigs/docs/[Documentation SIG].
It includes a number of link:/sigs/docs/#ongoing-projects[ongoing projects].
Technical writers are welcome to make their proposals in any area of the Jenkins documentation.
We encourage proposals based on a technical writer's expertise and interests.

[frame="topbot",grid="all",options="header",cols="30%,15%,55%"]
|=========================================================
|Project idea | Keywords | Description and links

| Create new solution pages for Jenkins use-cases
| AsciiDoc, Guide
| Jenkins project has several link:/solutions/[solution pages] for various use-cases.
  We invite technical writers to create new solution pages for various use-cases (e.g. Documentation as code, Continuous Deployment, Static Analysis)
  or technologies (Git, GitLab, Kubernetes, etc.).
  Existing pages were created several years ago, and they could also be updated.
  There are a lot of materials available on the web, but having dedicated solution pages could help users to discover such materials.
  link:/sigs/docs/#solution-pages[More info]

| Plugin documentation migration and update
| Markdown, GitHub, Plugins, Rewrite, Copy-editing
| Currently we are link:/doc/developer/publishing/wiki-page/#migrating-from-wiki-to-github[migrating our plugin documentation] from Jenkins Wiki to GitHub,
  see link:/blog/2019/10/21/plugin-docs-on-github/[this blog post] for announcement.
  We have already moved hundreds of pages, but there are hundreds of pages remaining.
  Migration itself can be done with automated tools we provide, but the documentation usually needs a significant update due to new features.
  We invite technical writers to select an area (e.g. "plugins for Docker"), and work closely with plugin maintainers to migrate and update documentation in such an area.
  link:/sigs/docs/#plugin-documentation-on-github[More Info]

| Jenkins user documentation reorganization and update
| AsciiDoc, Guide, Rewrite
| Jenkins user topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook], and are frequently received to improve the user documentation.
Common improvement themes include adding pipeline examples with each of the pipeline steps and additional tutorials for new users.
The main aim of this project would be to  restructure content to make it more discoverable and easy to read.
link:/sigs/docs/#user-guide[More info]

|=========================================================
