content/sigs/docs/gsod/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: project
title: "Google Season of Docs in Jenkins"
section: projects
sig: docs
tags:
- gsod
- docs
- docs-sig
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsod/gsod_opengraph.png
links:
  meetings: "/sigs/docs/gsod/#office-hours"
---

image:/images/gsod/gsod.png[Google Season of Docs, role=center, float=right]

The https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/[Google Season of Docs (GSoD)]
program brings together open source and technical writers communities for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
GSoD in Jenkins is organized by the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation special interest group].

== Project Ideas

Significant documentation project opportunities are listed in the link:/sigs/docs/gsod/ideas[Google Season of Docs project ideas].

== Getting started

If you are interested to participate in Google Season of Docs as a technical writer, please do the following:

. Join our link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[Gitter Channel].
. Explore the project ideas listed on this page, find areas which would be interesting to you.
. Try link:/participate/document/[contributing to Jenkins documentation] to study our documentation tools and contribution process.
  There are some link:/participate/document/#newcomers[newcomer-friendly documentation tasks] you could try.
. If you start exploring the project before May 29, consider joining our link:/events/online-hackfest/2020-uiux/[UI/UX hackfest] which includes the link:/events/online-hackfest/2020-uiux/#user-documentation[user documentation track].
  It is a good opportunity to get know the community better.
. Send an introductory email to our mailing list. Please include a short self-introduction and list projects which would be interesting to you.

== Team

* Org admins:
  link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev],
  link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite]
* Potential mentors:
  link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite],
  link:/blog/authors/kwhetstone/[Kristin Whetstone],
  link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev],
  Vivek Sonar
* Documentation SIG link:/sigs/docs/#members[members] and component maintainers assist as their time allows (link:/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] and Meg McRoberts)

== Technology and tools

For all new documentation projects we are using the link:https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/docs-as-code/[Documentation as Code approach]
when documentation is developed using markup languages and stored in source control management (SCM) systems.
Here are the common tools we use:

* Markdown languages: link:https://asciidoctor.org/[AsciiDoc] and link:https://github.github.com/gfm/[GitHub Flavored Markdown]
** For example, this page is written in Asciidoc.
   You can find its sources link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/blob/master/content/sigs/docs/gsod/index.adoc[here].
* SCM: link:https://git-scm.com/[Git]
* Source Code Hosting: link:http://github.com/[github.com]
* Text editing: any text editor with AsciiDoc/Markdown support (e.g. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[Visual Studio Code], link:https://notepad-plus-plus.org/[Notepad++]) or a specialized IDE

Particular components may also require additional tools for documentation development.
For example, the jenkins.io website requires Docker for being built and tested locally.
In such cases we document usage of these tools in link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[our contributing guidelines] and help newcomer maintainers if needed.

== Contacts

We use the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation SIG] communication channels for GSoD project discussions during the application phases.

* link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[Gitter Channel]
* link:/sigs/docs/#meetings[Regular SIG meetings]

Once the projects are announced, other project-specific channels may be created as needed.

== Additional Information

=== Technical writers

* link:/participate/document/[Contributing to Jenkins documentation]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/tech-writer-guide[GSoD Technical Writer guide]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline[GSoD Timeline]

=== Mentors

* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline[GSoD Timeline]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/project-selection[Selecting projects]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/tech-writer-collaboration[Working with a technical writer]

[#archive]
== Previous years

[[GSoD-2021]]
* **GSoD 2021** - not accepted
+
The Docs SIG link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2021/organization-proposal/[organization proposal] as a mentoring organization in Google Season of Docs 2021 was declined.
See the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WaOB2_ekdDzUOGIqi60USCbaV7oNpBtQZtByB7LZwC8/edit?usp=sharing[retrospective] for future improvements.

[[GSoD-2020]]
* **link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/[GSoD 2020]** link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/projects/document-jenkins-on-kubernetes[Document Jenkins on Kubernetes] by link:/blog/authors/zaycodes[Zainab Abubakar]
+
The Jenkins project was a mentoring organization in Google Season of Docs 2020.
The writing project started September 14, 2020 and concluded November 30, 2020.
See the link:/blog/2020/12/04/gsod-project-report/[project report] by link:/blog/authors/zaycodes[Zainab Abubakar] for details of
the writing project and our first experience as a Google Season of Docs mentoring organization.

* **GSoD 2019** - not accepted
(link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ighqWo7gIDCnLQ-b6FouQKz-fvmHsnTsMfqBh_mVNbI/edit?usp=sharing[application form and project ideas],
link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uNNo0QJKPHnNp8PGr_jLI8p3K_94ZYD-M0evZOEZ93c/edit#heading=h.g4afeqolzwpj[retrospective])

Commit message:

Update GSoD status in various pages (#8115)
Update GSoD status

content/sigs/docs/gsod/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: project
title: "Google Season of Docs in Jenkins"
section: projects
sig: docs
tags:
- gsod
- docs
- docs-sig
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsod/gsod_opengraph.png
links:
  meetings: "/sigs/docs/gsod/#office-hours"
---

image:/images/gsod/gsod.png[Google Season of Docs, role=center, float=right]

The https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/[Google Season of Docs (GSoD)]
program brings together open source and technical writers communities for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
GSoD in Jenkins is organized by the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation special interest group].

NOTE: The Google Summer of Docs program has concluded as of May 2025.
This conclusion was originally announced through a link:https://groups.google.com/g/google-summer-of-code-mentors-list/c/t2LIAn1NCEQ/m/sfww4qe-EAAJ[Google Summer of Code user group] along with links to various resources from the program.
Additional information will be made available at a later time through the link:https://opensource.googleblog.com/[Google Open Source Blog].

== Project Ideas

Significant documentation project opportunities are listed in the link:/sigs/docs/gsod/ideas[Google Season of Docs project ideas].

== Getting started

If you are interested to participate in Google Season of Docs as a technical writer, please do the following:

. Join our link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[Gitter Channel].
. Explore the project ideas listed on this page, find areas which would be interesting to you.
. Try link:/participate/document/[contributing to Jenkins documentation] to study our documentation tools and contribution process.
  There are some link:/participate/document/#newcomers[newcomer-friendly documentation tasks] you could try.
. If you start exploring the project before May 29, consider joining our link:/events/online-hackfest/2020-uiux/[UI/UX hackfest] which includes the link:/events/online-hackfest/2020-uiux/#user-documentation[user documentation track].
  It is a good opportunity to get know the community better.
. Send an introductory email to our mailing list. Please include a short self-introduction and list projects which would be interesting to you.

== Team

* Org admins:
  link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev],
  link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite]
* Potential mentors:
  link:/blog/authors/markewaite/[Mark Waite],
  link:/blog/authors/kwhetstone/[Kristin Whetstone],
  link:/blog/authors/oleg_nenashev/[Oleg Nenashev],
  Vivek Sonar
* Documentation SIG link:/sigs/docs/#members[members] and component maintainers assist as their time allows (link:/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] and Meg McRoberts)

== Technology and tools

For all new documentation projects we are using the link:https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/docs-as-code/[Documentation as Code approach]
when documentation is developed using markup languages and stored in source control management (SCM) systems.
Here are the common tools we use:

* Markdown languages: link:https://asciidoctor.org/[AsciiDoc] and link:https://github.github.com/gfm/[GitHub Flavored Markdown]
** For example, this page is written in Asciidoc.
   You can find its sources link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/blob/master/content/sigs/docs/gsod/index.adoc[here].
* SCM: link:https://git-scm.com/[Git]
* Source Code Hosting: link:http://github.com/[github.com]
* Text editing: any text editor with AsciiDoc/Markdown support (e.g. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[Visual Studio Code], link:https://notepad-plus-plus.org/[Notepad++]) or a specialized IDE

Particular components may also require additional tools for documentation development.
For example, the jenkins.io website requires Docker for being built and tested locally.
In such cases we document usage of these tools in link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[our contributing guidelines] and help newcomer maintainers if needed.

== Contacts

We use the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation SIG] communication channels for GSoD project discussions during the application phases.

* link:https://app.gitter.im/#/room/#jenkins/docs:matrix.org[Gitter Channel]
* link:/sigs/docs/#meetings[Regular SIG meetings]

Once the projects are announced, other project-specific channels may be created as needed.

== Additional Information

=== Technical writers

* link:/participate/document/[Contributing to Jenkins documentation]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/tech-writer-guide[GSoD Technical Writer guide]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline[GSoD Timeline]

=== Mentors

* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/timeline[GSoD Timeline]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/project-selection[Selecting projects]
* link:https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/docs/tech-writer-collaboration[Working with a technical writer]

[#archive]
== Previous years

[[GSoD-2021]]
* **GSoD 2021** - not accepted
+
The Docs SIG link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2021/organization-proposal/[organization proposal] as a mentoring organization in Google Season of Docs 2021 was declined.
See the link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WaOB2_ekdDzUOGIqi60USCbaV7oNpBtQZtByB7LZwC8/edit?usp=sharing[retrospective] for future improvements.

[[GSoD-2020]]
* **link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/[GSoD 2020]** link:/sigs/docs/gsod/2020/projects/document-jenkins-on-kubernetes[Document Jenkins on Kubernetes] by link:/blog/authors/zaycodes[Zainab Abubakar]
+
The Jenkins project was a mentoring organization in Google Season of Docs 2020.
The writing project started September 14, 2020 and concluded November 30, 2020.
See the link:/blog/2020/12/04/gsod-project-report/[project report] by link:/blog/authors/zaycodes[Zainab Abubakar] for details of
the writing project and our first experience as a Google Season of Docs mentoring organization.

* **GSoD 2019** - not accepted
(link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ighqWo7gIDCnLQ-b6FouQKz-fvmHsnTsMfqBh_mVNbI/edit?usp=sharing[application form and project ideas],
link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uNNo0QJKPHnNp8PGr_jLI8p3K_94ZYD-M0evZOEZ93c/edit#heading=h.g4afeqolzwpj[retrospective])
