content/security/advisory/2018-08-15.adoc, before:

---
layout: advisory
title: Jenkins Security Advisory 2018-08-15
section: security
kind: core
core:
  lts:
    previous: 2.121.2
    fixed: 2.121.3
  weekly:
    previous: 2.137
    fixed: 2.138
issues:

- id: SECURITY-637
  title: Jenkins allowed deserialization of <code>URL</code> objects with host components
  reporter: Jesse Glick, CloudBees, Inc.
  cve: CVE-2018-1999042
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    Jenkins allowed deserialization of `URL` objects via Remoting (agent communication) and XStream.

    This could in rare cases be used by attackers to have Jenkins look up specified hosts' DNS records.

    Jenkins now injects a `URLStreamHandler` when deserializing URLs that overrides the affected `URL` methods.

    This can be disabled if needed by setting the system property `hudson.remoting.URLDeserializationHelper.avoidUrlWrapping` to `true`.

- id: SECURITY-672 # tracked as SECURITY-896
  title: Ephemeral user record was created on some invalid authentication attempts
  reporter: Wadeck Follonier, CloudBees, Inc., and, independently, Nimrod Stoler of CyberArk Labs
  cve: CVE-2018-1999043
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:L
  description: |
    When attempting to authenticate using API token, an ephemeral user record was created to validate the token in case an external security realm was used, and the user record in Jenkins not previously saved, as (legacy) API tokens could exist without a persisted user record.

    This behavior could be abused to create a large number of ephemeral user records in memory.

    The API token validation on authentication has been improved to no longer create ephemeral user records.

- id: SECURITY-790
  title: Cron expression form validation could enter infinite loop, potentially resulting in denial of service
  reporter: Thomas de Grenier de Latour
  cve: CVE-2018-1999044
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H
  description: |
    The form validation for cron expressions (e.g. "Poll SCM", "Build periodically") could enter infinite loops when cron expressions only matching certain rare dates were entered, blocking request handling threads indefinitely.

- id: SECURITY-996
  title: >
    "Remember me" cookie was evaluated even if that feature is disabled
  # reporter: Did not ask to be credited
  cve: CVE-2018-1999045
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    The "Remember me" feature can be disabled in the Jenkins security configuration.

    This did not disable the processing of previously set "Remember me" cookies, so they still allowed users to be logged in.

    "Remember me" cookies are no longer evaluated when the corresponding feature is disabled.

- id: SECURITY-1071
  title: Unauthorized users could access agent logs
  reporter: Orange Tsai(@orange_8361) from DEVCORE
  cve: CVE-2018-1999046
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    Users with Overall/Read permission were able to access the URL serving agent logs on the UI due to a lack of permission checks.

    Access to the affected URL is now limited to users with the correct Agent/Connect permission.

- id: SECURITY-1076
  title: Unauthorized users could cancel scheduled restarts initiated from the update center
  reporter: Wadeck Follonier, CloudBees, Inc.
  cve: CVE-2018-1999047
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L
  description: |
    Users with Overall/Read permission were able to access the URL used to cancel scheduled restart jobs initiated via the update center ("Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running") due to a lack of permission checks.

    Access to the affected URL is now limited to users with Overall/Administer permission.

Commit message:

Chore-replace all remember me mentions to keep me signed in

content/security/advisory/2018-08-15.adoc, after:

---
layout: advisory
title: Jenkins Security Advisory 2018-08-15
section: security
kind: core
core:
  lts:
    previous: 2.121.2
    fixed: 2.121.3
  weekly:
    previous: 2.137
    fixed: 2.138
issues:

- id: SECURITY-637
  title: Jenkins allowed deserialization of <code>URL</code> objects with host components
  reporter: Jesse Glick, CloudBees, Inc.
  cve: CVE-2018-1999042
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    Jenkins allowed deserialization of `URL` objects via Remoting (agent communication) and XStream.

    This could in rare cases be used by attackers to have Jenkins look up specified hosts' DNS records.

    Jenkins now injects a `URLStreamHandler` when deserializing URLs that overrides the affected `URL` methods.

    This can be disabled if needed by setting the system property `hudson.remoting.URLDeserializationHelper.avoidUrlWrapping` to `true`.

- id: SECURITY-672 # tracked as SECURITY-896
  title: Ephemeral user record was created on some invalid authentication attempts
  reporter: Wadeck Follonier, CloudBees, Inc., and, independently, Nimrod Stoler of CyberArk Labs
  cve: CVE-2018-1999043
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:L
  description: |
    When attempting to authenticate using API token, an ephemeral user record was created to validate the token in case an external security realm was used, and the user record in Jenkins not previously saved, as (legacy) API tokens could exist without a persisted user record.

    This behavior could be abused to create a large number of ephemeral user records in memory.

    The API token validation on authentication has been improved to no longer create ephemeral user records.

- id: SECURITY-790
  title: Cron expression form validation could enter infinite loop, potentially resulting in denial of service
  reporter: Thomas de Grenier de Latour
  cve: CVE-2018-1999044
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:H
  description: |
    The form validation for cron expressions (e.g. "Poll SCM", "Build periodically") could enter infinite loops when cron expressions only matching certain rare dates were entered, blocking request handling threads indefinitely.

- id: SECURITY-996
  title: >
    "Keep me signed in" cookie was evaluated even if that feature is disabled
  # reporter: Did not ask to be credited
  cve: CVE-2018-1999045
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    The "Keep me signed in" feature can be disabled in the Jenkins security configuration.

    This did not disable the processing of previously set "Keep me signed in" cookies, so they still allowed users to be logged in.

    "Keep me signed in" cookies are no longer evaluated when the corresponding feature is disabled.

- id: SECURITY-1071
  title: Unauthorized users could access agent logs
  reporter: Orange Tsai(@orange_8361) from DEVCORE
  cve: CVE-2018-1999046
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N
  description: |
    Users with Overall/Read permission were able to access the URL serving agent logs on the UI due to a lack of permission checks.

    Access to the affected URL is now limited to users with the correct Agent/Connect permission.

- id: SECURITY-1076
  title: Unauthorized users could cancel scheduled restarts initiated from the update center
  reporter: Wadeck Follonier, CloudBees, Inc.
  cve: CVE-2018-1999047
  cvss:
    severity: low
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:H/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L
  description: |
    Users with Overall/Read permission were able to access the URL used to cancel scheduled restart jobs initiated via the update center ("Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running") due to a lack of permission checks.

    Access to the affected URL is now limited to users with Overall/Administer permission.
