content/security/advisory/2019-01-16.adoc, before:

---
layout: advisory
title: Jenkins Security Advisory 2019-01-16
section: security
kind: core
core:
  lts:
    previous: 2.150.1
    fixed: 2.150.2
  weekly:
    previous: 2.159
    fixed: "2.160"
issues:
# CVEs via https://github.com/CVEProject/cvelist/pull/1479
- id: SECURITY-868
  title: Administrators could persist access to Jenkins using crafted 'Remember me' cookie
  reporter: Apple Information Security
  cve: CVE-2019-1003003
  cvss:
    severity: high
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H
  description: |
    Users with the Overall/RunScripts permission (typically administrators) were able to use the Jenkins script console to craft a 'Remember me' cookie that would never expire.

    This allowed attackers access to a Jenkins instance while the corresponding user in the configured security realm exists, for example to persist access after another successful attack.

    Jenkins now encodes a per-user seed value in 'Remember me' cookies that is invalidated when the user password in the Jenkins user database is changed, the user record in Jenkins is deleted, or when all sessions for a given user are terminated through a new feature on the user's configuration page.


- id: SECURITY-901
  title: Deleting a user in an external security realm did not invalidate their session or 'Remember me' cookie
  reporter: Nimrod Stoler of CyberArk Labs
  cve: CVE-2019-1003004
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H
  description: |
    When using an external security realm such as LDAP or Active Directory, deleting a user from the security realm does not result in the user losing access to Jenkins.

    While deleting the user record from Jenkins did invalidate the 'Remember me' cookie, there was no way to invalidate active sessions besides restarting Jenkins or terminating sessions through other means, such as Monitoring Plugin.

    Jenkins now encodes a per-user seed value in sessions, 'Remember me' cookies, and cached authentications of the remoting-based CLI, that can manually be reset by a user themselves, or an administrator, on the user's configuration page. Doing so will invalidate all current sessions, 'Remember me' cookies, and cached CLI authentications, requiring credentials to be entered again to authenticate. Deleting a user record in Jenkins will now also invalidate existing sessions, as the current seed value is deleted as well.

Commit message:

Chore-replace all remember me mentions to keep me signed in

content/security/advisory/2019-01-16.adoc, after:

---
layout: advisory
title: Jenkins Security Advisory 2019-01-16
section: security
kind: core
core:
  lts:
    previous: 2.150.1
    fixed: 2.150.2
  weekly:
    previous: 2.159
    fixed: "2.160"
issues:
# CVEs via https://github.com/CVEProject/cvelist/pull/1479
- id: SECURITY-868
  title: Administrators could persist access to Jenkins using crafted 'Keep me signed in' cookie
  reporter: Apple Information Security
  cve: CVE-2019-1003003
  cvss:
    severity: high
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H
  description: |
    Users with the Overall/RunScripts permission (typically administrators) were able to use the Jenkins script console to craft a 'Keep me signed in' cookie that would never expire.

    This allowed attackers access to a Jenkins instance while the corresponding user in the configured security realm exists, for example to persist access after another successful attack.

    Jenkins now encodes a per-user seed value in 'Keep me signed in' cookies that is invalidated when the user password in the Jenkins user database is changed, the user record in Jenkins is deleted, or when all sessions for a given user are terminated through a new feature on the user's configuration page.


- id: SECURITY-901
  title: Deleting a user in an external security realm did not invalidate their session or 'Keep me signed in' cookie
  reporter: Nimrod Stoler of CyberArk Labs
  cve: CVE-2019-1003004
  cvss:
    severity: medium
    vector: CVSS:3.0/AV:N/AC:L/PR:H/UI:R/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H
  description: |
    When using an external security realm such as LDAP or Active Directory, deleting a user from the security realm does not result in the user losing access to Jenkins.

    While deleting the user record from Jenkins did invalidate the 'Keep me signed in' cookie, there was no way to invalidate active sessions besides restarting Jenkins or terminating sessions through other means, such as Monitoring Plugin.

    Jenkins now encodes a per-user seed value in sessions, 'Keep me signed in' cookies, and cached authentications of the remoting-based CLI, that can manually be reset by a user themselves, or an administrator, on the user's configuration page. Doing so will invalidate all current sessions, 'Keep me signed in' cookies, and cached CLI authentications, requiring credentials to be entered again to authenticate. Deleting a user record in Jenkins will now also invalidate existing sessions, as the current seed value is deleted as well.
