content/doc/book/getting-started/index.adoc, before:

---
layout: chapter
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:notitle:
endif::[]

= User Handbook Overview

This page provides an overview of the documentation in the Jenkins User
Handbook.

If you want to get up and running with Jenkins, see
link:../installing[Installing Jenkins] for procedures on how to install Jenkins
on your supported platform of choice.

If you are a typical Jenkins user (of any skill level) who wants to know more
about Jenkins usage, see link:../using[Using Jenkins]. Also refer to the
separate link:../pipeline[Pipeline] and link:../blueocean[Blue Ocean] chapters
for more information about these core Jenkins features.

If you are a Jenkins administrator and want to know more about managing Jenkins
nodes and instances, see link:../managing[Managing Jenkins].

If you are a system administrator and want to learn how to back-up, restore,
maintain as Jenkins servers and nodes, see
link:../system-administration[Jenkins System Administration].

Commit message:

docs: improve User Handbook overview
Added a short introductory paragraph explaining Jenkins use cases and what the User Handbook covers.

content/doc/book/getting-started/index.adoc, after:

---
layout: chapter
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:notitle:
endif::[]

= User Handbook Overview

This page provides an overview of the documentation in the Jenkins User
Handbook.

Jenkins is an extensible automation server that enables developers to build,
test, and deliver software through continuous integration and continuous
delivery (CI/CD) pipelines. This Getting Started content helps new users
understand where to begin by pointing to installation, usage, and
administration sections of the handbook.

If you want to get up and running with Jenkins, see
link:../installing[Installing Jenkins] for procedures on how to install Jenkins
on your supported platform of choice.

If you are a typical Jenkins user (of any skill level) who wants to know more
about Jenkins usage, see link:../using[Using Jenkins]. Also refer to the
separate link:../pipeline[Pipeline] and link:../blueocean[Blue Ocean] chapters
for more information about these core Jenkins features.

If you are a Jenkins administrator and want to know more about managing Jenkins
nodes and instances, see link:../managing[Managing Jenkins].

If you are a system administrator and want to learn how to back-up, restore,
maintain as Jenkins servers and nodes, see
link:../system-administration[Jenkins System Administration].
