content/blog/2024/10/04/2024-10-04-content-security-policy-grant.adoc, before:

---
:layout: post
:title: "Alpha Omega Foundation Content Security Policy Grant"
:tags:
- donation
authors:
- markewaite
description: >
  Alpha Omega Foundation funds 3 months of work on Jenkins Content Security Policy
links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/content-security-policy/nnnnn
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2024/10/04/content-security-policy-grant.png
---

Alpha-Omega has provided a grant from for three months of full-time work to improve the link:/doc/developer/security/csp/[Jenkins implementation] of link:https://content-security-policy.com/[Content Security Policy].
The improvements will be implemented in October, November, and December of 2024.
link:/blog/authors/shlomomdahan/[Shlomo Dahan] is implementing the improvements with technical guidance from link:/blog/authors/basil/[Basil Crow] and project management support from link:/blog/authors/gounthar/[Bruno Verachten].

link:https://alpha-omega.dev/[Alpha-Omega] is an associated project of the OpenSSF, established in February 2022, funded by Microsoft, Google, and Amazon.
The mission of Alpha-Omega is protect society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects and ecosystems.
Alpha-Omega has link:https://alpha-omega.dev/grants/grantrecipients/[funded security improvements] in major open source projects like the Linux Kernel, Rust Foundation, FreeBSD, Node.js, Ruby Central, and the Eclipse Foundation.
We are sincerely grateful for this grant to the Jenkins project.

== What is Content Security Policy?

From link:https://content-security-policy.com/[content-security-policy.com]:

> _Content-Security-Policy_ is the name of a HTTP response header that modern browsers use to enhance the security of the document (or web page). The Content-Security-Policy header allows you to restrict which resources (such as JavaScript, CSS, Images, etc.) can be loaded, and the URLs that they can be loaded from.

Using Content-Security-Policy (CSP), injection attacks like cross-site scripting can be prevented.

== Why a grant for Jenkins?

Jenkins is the leading open source automation server.
It provides critical capabilities to organizations around the world as they create, test, and deploy software.
Improving the security of the Jenkins project aligns very well with the Alpha-Omega mission for "sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects".

We hope that the successful completion of this 3-month project will result in additional funding and an expanded project in 2025.

== Who is working on the project?

link:/blog/authors/basil/[Basil Crow] is the technical lead of the project.  He'll provide guidance, mentoring, and assistance for the implementation.

link:/blog/authors/gounthar/[Bruno Verachten] is the project manager.  He'll provide regular progress reports to Alpha-Omega.

link:/blog/authors/shlomomdahan/[Shlomo Dahan] is the developer that will implement the improvements.

Commit message:

Use author macro instead of link
Co-authored-by: Bruno Verachten <gounthar@gmail.com>

content/blog/2024/10/04/2024-10-04-content-security-policy-grant.adoc, after:

---
:layout: post
:title: "Alpha Omega Foundation Content Security Policy Grant"
:tags:
- donation
authors:
- markewaite
description: >
  Alpha Omega Foundation funds 3 months of work on Jenkins Content Security Policy
links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/content-security-policy/nnnnn
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2024/10/04/content-security-policy-grant.png
---

Alpha-Omega has provided a grant from for three months of full-time work to improve the link:/doc/developer/security/csp/[Jenkins implementation] of link:https://content-security-policy.com/[Content Security Policy].
The improvements will be implemented in October, November, and December of 2024.
author:shlomomdahan[Shlomo Dahan] is implementing the improvements with technical guidance from author:basil[Basil Crow] and project management support from author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten].

link:https://alpha-omega.dev/[Alpha-Omega] is an associated project of the OpenSSF, established in February 2022, funded by Microsoft, Google, and Amazon.
The mission of Alpha-Omega is protect society by catalyzing sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects and ecosystems.
Alpha-Omega has link:https://alpha-omega.dev/grants/grantrecipients/[funded security improvements] in major open source projects like the Linux Kernel, Rust Foundation, FreeBSD, Node.js, Ruby Central, and the Eclipse Foundation.
We are sincerely grateful for this grant to the Jenkins project.

== What is Content Security Policy?

From link:https://content-security-policy.com/[content-security-policy.com]:

> _Content-Security-Policy_ is the name of a HTTP response header that modern browsers use to enhance the security of the document (or web page). The Content-Security-Policy header allows you to restrict which resources (such as JavaScript, CSS, Images, etc.) can be loaded, and the URLs that they can be loaded from.

Using Content-Security-Policy (CSP), injection attacks like cross-site scripting can be prevented.

== Why a grant for Jenkins?

Jenkins is the leading open source automation server.
It provides critical capabilities to organizations around the world as they create, test, and deploy software.
Improving the security of the Jenkins project aligns very well with the Alpha-Omega mission for "sustainable security improvements to the most critical open source software projects".

We hope that the successful completion of this 3-month project will result in additional funding and an expanded project in 2025.

== Who is working on the project?

author:basil[Basil Crow] is the technical lead of the project.  He'll provide guidance, mentoring, and assistance for the implementation.

author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten] is the project manager.  He'll provide regular progress reports to Alpha-Omega.

author:shlomomdahan[Shlomo Dahan] is the developer who will implement the improvements.
