content/doc/book/security/csrf-protection.adoc, before:

---
title: CSRF Protection
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery[Cross-Site Request Forgery] (CSRF or XSRF) is a type of security vulnerability in web applications.
Without protection from CSRF, a Jenkins user or administrator visiting some other web site would allow the operator of that site to perform actions in Jenkins as the victim.

## CSRF Protection in Jenkins

CSRF protection uses a token (called _crumb_ in Jenkins) that is created by Jenkins and sent to the user.
Any form submissions or similar action resulting in modifications, like triggering builds or changing configuration, requires that the crumb be provided.
The crumb contains information identifying the user it was created for, so submissions with another user's token would be rejected.
All of this happens in the background and has no visible impact except in rare circumstances, e.g., after a user's session expired and they logged in again.

NOTE: The documentation on this page applies to Jenkins 2.222 or newer.


## Configuring CSRF Protection

In _Manage Jenkins » Security » CSRF Protection_, administrators can configure CSRF Protection.

image::security/configure-global-security-prevent-csrf.png["CSRF Protection in Security", role=center]

The _Default Crumb Issuer_ encodes the following information in the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function[hash] used as crumb:

* The user name that the crumb was generated for
* The web session ID that the crumb was generated in
* The IP address of the user that the crumb was generated for
* A https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_(cryptography)[salt] unique to this Jenkins instance

All of this information needs to match when a crumb is sent back to Jenkins for that submission to be considered valid.

The only supported option _Enable proxy compatibility_ removes information about the user IP address from the token.
This can be useful when Jenkins is running behind a reverse proxy and a user's IP address as seen from Jenkins would regularly change.

NOTE: The web session ID was added in Jenkins 2.176.2 and 2.186 to cause crumb to expire.
See link:/security/advisory/2019-07-17/#SECURITY-626[security advisory] and link:/doc/upgrade-guide/2.176/#SECURITY-626[upgrade guide].

Plugins may provide other crumb issuers that use other criteria to determine whether a crumb is valid.
The plugin:strict-crumb-issuer[Strict Crumb Issuer] provides an alternative crumb issuer implementation that is more customizable.


## Working with Scripted Clients

Requests sent using the `POST` method are subject to CSRF protection in Jenkins and generally need to provide a crumb.
This also applies to scripted clients that **authenticate using username and password**.
Since the crumb includes the web session ID, clients need to do the following:

* Send a request to the `/crumbIssuer/api` endpoints, requesting a crumb. Note the `Set-Cookie` response header.
* For all subsequent requests, provide the crumb and the session cookie in addition to username and password.

Alternatively **authenticate using username and API token**.
Requests authenticating with an link:/doc/book/system-administration/authenticating-scripted-clients/[API token] are exempt from CSRF protection in Jenkins.

## Disabling CSRF Protection

Outdated plugins that send HTTP requests to Jenkins may not work with CSRF protection enabled.
In this case, it may be necessary to disable CSRF protection temporarily.

IMPORTANT: It is *strongly recommended* that CSRF protection be left *enabled*, including on instances operating on private, fully trusted networks.

To disable CSRF protection, set the system property `hudson.security.csrf.GlobalCrumbIssuerConfiguration.DISABLE_CSRF_PROTECTION` to `true` on startup.
link:/doc/book/managing/system-properties/[Learn more about system properties in Jenkins].

Commit message:

Document removal of IP address from default crumb issuer

content/doc/book/security/csrf-protection.adoc, after:

---
title: CSRF Protection
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery[Cross-Site Request Forgery] (CSRF or XSRF) is a type of security vulnerability in web applications.
Without protection from CSRF, a Jenkins user or administrator visiting some other web site would allow the operator of that site to perform actions in Jenkins as the victim.

## CSRF Protection in Jenkins

CSRF protection uses a token (called _crumb_ in Jenkins) that is created by Jenkins and sent to the user.
Any form submissions or similar action resulting in modifications, like triggering builds or changing configuration, requires that the crumb be provided.
The crumb contains information identifying the user it was created for, so submissions with another user's token would be rejected.
All of this happens in the background and has no visible impact except in rare circumstances, e.g., after a user's session expired and they logged in again.

NOTE: The documentation on this page applies to Jenkins 2.222 or newer.


## Configuring CSRF Protection

In _Manage Jenkins » Security » CSRF Protection_, administrators can configure CSRF Protection.

image::security/configure-global-security-prevent-csrf.png["CSRF Protection in Security", role=center]

The _Default Crumb Issuer_ encodes the following information in the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function[hash] used as crumb:

* The user name that the crumb was generated for
* The web session ID that the crumb was generated in
* A https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_(cryptography)[salt] unique to this Jenkins instance

All of this information needs to match when a crumb is sent back to Jenkins for that submission to be considered valid.

NOTE: Before Jenkins 2.TODO, the IP address was optionally also included by default.
The option _Enable proxy compatibility_ could be used to remove information about the user IP address from the token.
This can be useful when Jenkins is running behind a reverse proxy and a user's IP address as seen from Jenkins would regularly change.
Since the web session ID provides stronger protection, this option was removed in Jenkins 2.TODO.

Plugins may provide other crumb issuers that use other criteria to determine whether a crumb is valid.
The plugin:strict-crumb-issuer[Strict Crumb Issuer] provides an alternative crumb issuer implementation that is more customizable.


## Working with Scripted Clients

Requests sent using the `POST` method are subject to CSRF protection in Jenkins and generally need to provide a crumb.
This also applies to scripted clients that **authenticate using username and password**.
Since the crumb includes the web session ID, clients need to do the following:

* Send a request to the `/crumbIssuer/api` endpoints, requesting a crumb. Note the `Set-Cookie` response header.
* For all subsequent requests, provide the crumb and the session cookie in addition to username and password.

Alternatively **authenticate using username and API token**.
Requests authenticating with an link:/doc/book/system-administration/authenticating-scripted-clients/[API token] are exempt from CSRF protection in Jenkins.

## Disabling CSRF Protection

Outdated plugins that send HTTP requests to Jenkins may not work with CSRF protection enabled.
In this case, it may be necessary to disable CSRF protection temporarily.

IMPORTANT: It is *strongly recommended* that CSRF protection be left *enabled*, including on instances operating on private, fully trusted networks.

To disable CSRF protection, set the system property `hudson.security.csrf.GlobalCrumbIssuerConfiguration.DISABLE_CSRF_PROTECTION` to `true` on startup.
link:/doc/book/managing/system-properties/[Learn more about system properties in Jenkins].
