content/doc/book/security/managing-security.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

= Managing Security

////
Pages to mark as deprecated by this document:

https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/core/src/main/resources/jenkins/security/s2m/MasterKillSwitchConfiguration/help-masterToagentAccessControl.html#L2
/content/redirect/security-144

////

Jenkins is used everywhere from workstations on corporate intranets, to
high-powered servers connected to the public internet. To safely support this
wide spread of security and threat profiles, Jenkins offers many configuration
options for enabling, editing, or disabling various security features.

As of Jenkins 2.0, many of the security options were enabled by default to
ensure that Jenkins environments remained secure unless an administrator
explicitly disabled certain protections.

This section will introduce the various security options available to a Jenkins
administrator, explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling
some of them.


== Enabling Security

Beginning with Jenkins 2.214 and Jenkins LTS 2.222.1, the "Enable Security" checkbox has been removed.
Jenkins own user database is used as the default security realm.

In versions before Jenkins 2.214 and Jenkins LTS 2.222.1, when the *Enable Security* checkbox is checked,
users can log in with a username and password in order to
perform operations not available to anonymous users. Which operations require
users to log in depends on the chosen authorization strategy and its configuration;
by default anonymous users have no permissions, and logged in users have full
control. The "Enable Security" checkbox should *always* be enabled for any non-local (test) Jenkins
environment.

The "Security" section of the web UI allows a Jenkins administrator to
enable, configure, or disable key security features which apply to the entire
Jenkins environment.

image::security/configure-global-security.png["Security", role=center]

=== TCP Port

Jenkins can use a TCP port to communicate with inbound (formerly known as “JNLP”) agents,
such as Windows-based agents.
As of Jenkins 2.0, by default this port is disabled.

For administrators wishing to use inbound TCP agents, the two port options are:


. *Random*: The TCP port is chosen at random to avoid collisions on the Jenkins <<../glossary#controller,controller>>.
  The downside to randomized ports is that they are chosen during the boot of the Jenkins controller,
  making it difficult to manage firewall rules allowing TCP traffic.
. *Fixed*: The port is chosen by the Jenkins administrator and is consistent across reboots of the Jenkins controller.
  This makes it easier to manage firewall rules allowing TCP-based agents to connect to the controller.

As of Jenkins 2.217, inbound agents may instead be configured to use WebSocket transport to connect to Jenkins.
In this case no extra TCP port need be enabled and no special security configuration is needed.

=== Access Control

Access Control is the primary mechanism for securing a Jenkins environment
against unauthorized usage. Two facets of configuration are necessary for
configuring Access Control in Jenkins:

. A *Security Realm* which informs the Jenkins environment how and where to
  pull user (or identity) information from. Also commonly known as "authentication."
. *Authorization* configuration which informs the Jenkins environment as to
  which users and/or groups can access which aspects of Jenkins, and to what
  extent.


Using both the Security Realm and Authorization configurations it is possible
to configure very relaxed or very rigid authentication and authorization
schemes in Jenkins.

Additionally, some plugins such as the
plugin:role-strategy[Role-based Authorization Strategy]
plugin can extend the Access Control capabilities of Jenkins to support even
more nuanced authentication and authorization schemes.


==== Security Realm

By default Jenkins includes support for a few different Security Realms:

Delegate to servlet container:: For delegating authentication a servlet
container running the Jenkins controller, such as
link:https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/[Jetty]. If using this option, please consult
the servlet container's authentication documentation.
Jenkins’ own user database:: Use Jenkins's own built-in user data store for
authentication instead of delegating to an external system. This is enabled by
default with new Jenkins 2.0 or later installations and is suitable for smaller
environments.
LDAP:: Delegate all authentication to a configured LDAP server, including both
users and groups. This option is more common for larger installations in
organizations which already have configured an external identity provider such
as LDAP. This also supports Active Directory installations.


[NOTE]
====
This feature is provided by the plugin:ldap[LDAP plugin]
that may not be installed on your instance.
====

Unix user/group database:: Delegates the authentication to the underlying Unix
OS-level user database on the Jenkins controller. This mode will also allow re-use
of Unix groups for authorization. For example, Jenkins can be configured such
that "Everyone in the `developers` group has administrator access." To support this feature, Jenkins relies on
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pluggable_Authentication_Modules[PAM]
which may need to be configured external to the Jenkins environment.


[CAUTION]
====
Unix allows an user and a group to have the same name. In order to
disambiguate, use the `@` prefix to force the name to be interpreted as
a group. For example, `@dev` would mean the `dev` group and not the `dev` user.
====

---


Plugins can provide additional security realms which may be useful for
incorporating Jenkins into existing identity systems, such as:

* plugin:active-directory[Active Directory]
* plugin:github-oauth[GitHub Authentication]

==== Authorization


The Security Realm, or authentication, indicates _who_ can access the Jenkins
environment. The other piece of the puzzle is *Authorization*, which indicates
_what_ they can access in the Jenkins environment. By default Jenkins supports
a few different Authorization options:


Anyone can do anything:: Everyone gets full control of Jenkins, including
anonymous users who haven't logged in. *Do not use this setting* for anything
other than local test Jenkins controllers.
Legacy mode:: Behaves exactly the same as Jenkins <1.164. Namely, if a user has
the "admin" role, they will be granted full control over the system, and otherwise
(including anonymous users) will only have the read access. *Do not use this
setting* for anything other than local test Jenkins controllers.
Logged in users can do anything:: In this mode, every logged-in user gets full
control of Jenkins. Depending on an advanced option, anonymous users get read
access to Jenkins, or no access at all. This mode is useful to force users to
log in before taking actions, so that there is an audit trail of users' actions.
Matrix-based security:: This authorization scheme allows for granular control
over which users and groups are able to perform which actions in the Jenkins
environment (see the screenshot below).
Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy:: This authorization scheme is an
extension to Matrix-based security which allows additional access control lists
(ACLs) to be defined for *each project* separately in the Project configuration
screen. This allows granting specific users or groups access only to specified
projects, instead of all projects in the Jenkins environment. The ACLs defined
with Project-based Matrix Authorization are additive such that access grants
defined in the Security screen will be combined with
project-specific ACLs.

[NOTE]
====
Matrix-based security and Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy are provided
by the plugin:matrix-auth[Matrix Authorization Strategy Plugin]
and may not be installed on your Jenkins.
====


For most Jenkins environments, Matrix-based security provides the most security
and flexibility so it is recommended as a starting point for "production"
environments.

.Matrix-based security
image::security/configure-global-security-matrix-authorization.png["Security - Matrix authorization", role=center]


The table shown above can get quite wide as each column represents a permission
provided by Jenkins core or a plugin. Hovering the mouse over a permission will
display more information about the permission.

Each row in the table represents a user or group (also known as a "role"). This
includes special entries named "anonymous" and "authenticated." The "anonymous"
entry represents permissions granted to all unauthenticated users accessing the
Jenkins environment. Whereas "authenticated' can be used to grant permissions
to all authenticated users accessing the environment.

The permissions granted in the matrix are additive. For example, if a user
"kohsuke" is in the groups "developers" and "administrators", then the
permissions granted to "kohsuke" will be a union of all those permissions
granted to "kohsuke", "developers", "administrators", "authenticated", and
"anonymous."

=== Markup Formatter

See link:/doc/book/security/markup-formatter/[Markup Formatter].


== CSRF Protection

See link:/doc/book/security/csrf-protection[CSRF Protection].

== Agent/Master Access Control

See link:/doc/book/security/controller-isolation[Isolating the Controller from Builds].

Commit message:

docs(security): clarify access control and global security configuration

content/doc/book/security/managing-security.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:hide-uri-scheme:
endif::[]

= Managing Security

////
Pages to mark as deprecated by this document:

https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/core/src/main/resources/jenkins/security/s2m/MasterKillSwitchConfiguration/help-masterToagentAccessControl.html#L2
/content/redirect/security-144

////

Jenkins is used everywhere from workstations on corporate intranets, to
high-powered servers connected to the public internet. To safely support this
wide spread of security and threat profiles, Jenkins offers many configuration
options for enabling, editing, or disabling various security features.

As of Jenkins 2.0, many of the security options were enabled by default to
ensure that Jenkins environments remained secure unless an administrator
explicitly disabled certain protections.

This section will introduce the various security options available to a Jenkins
administrator, explaining the protections offered, and trade-offs to disabling
some of them.


== Configure Global Security

[NOTE]
====
Earlier releases included an *Enable Security* checkbox. This option was removed
in Jenkins 2.214 and Jenkins LTS 2.222.1 and later releases.

Security can no longer be disabled. As a result, only users who log in with a
username and password can perform operations not permitted to anonymous users.
By default, logged-in users have full control. The permissions granted to
logged-in users can be restricted by configuring the selected authorization
strategy.
====

The "Security" section of the web UI allows a Jenkins administrator to
enable, configure, or disable key security features which apply to the entire
Jenkins environment.

image::security/configure-global-security.png["Security", role=center]

=== TCP Port

Jenkins can use a TCP port to communicate with inbound (formerly known as “JNLP”) agents,
such as Windows-based agents.
As of Jenkins 2.0, by default this port is disabled.

For administrators wishing to use inbound TCP agents, the two port options are:


. *Random*: The TCP port is chosen at random to avoid collisions on the Jenkins <<../glossary#controller,controller>>.
  The downside to randomized ports is that they are chosen during the boot of the Jenkins controller,
  making it difficult to manage firewall rules allowing TCP traffic.
. *Fixed*: The port is chosen by the Jenkins administrator and is consistent across reboots of the Jenkins controller.
  This makes it easier to manage firewall rules allowing TCP-based agents to connect to the controller.

As of Jenkins 2.217, inbound agents may instead be configured to use WebSocket transport to connect to Jenkins.
In this case no extra TCP port need be enabled and no special security configuration is needed.

=== Access Control

Access Control is the primary mechanism for securing a Jenkins environment
against unauthorized usage. Two facets of configuration are necessary for
configuring Access Control in Jenkins:

. A *Security Realm* which informs the Jenkins environment how and where to
  pull user (or identity) information from. Also commonly known as "authentication."
. *Authorization* configuration which informs the Jenkins environment as to
  which users and/or groups can access which aspects of Jenkins, and to what
  extent.


Using both the Security Realm and Authorization configurations it is possible
to configure very relaxed or very rigid authentication and authorization
schemes in Jenkins.

Additionally, some plugins such as the
plugin:role-strategy[Role-based Authorization Strategy]
plugin can extend the Access Control capabilities of Jenkins to support even
more nuanced authentication and authorization schemes.


==== Security Realm

By default Jenkins includes support for a few different Security Realms:

Delegate to servlet container:: For delegating authentication a servlet
container running the Jenkins controller, such as
link:https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/[Jetty]. If using this option, please consult
the servlet container's authentication documentation.
Jenkins’ own user database:: Use Jenkins's own built-in user data store for
authentication instead of delegating to an external system. This is enabled by
default with new Jenkins 2.0 or later installations and is suitable for smaller
environments.
LDAP:: Delegate all authentication to a configured LDAP server, including both
users and groups. This option is more common for larger installations in
organizations which already have configured an external identity provider such
as LDAP. This also supports Active Directory installations.


[NOTE]
====
This feature is provided by the plugin:ldap[LDAP plugin]
that may not be installed on your instance.
====

Unix user/group database:: Delegates the authentication to the underlying Unix
OS-level user database on the Jenkins controller. This mode will also allow re-use
of Unix groups for authorization. For example, Jenkins can be configured such
that "Everyone in the `developers` group has administrator access." To support this feature, Jenkins relies on
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pluggable_Authentication_Modules[PAM]
which may need to be configured external to the Jenkins environment.


[CAUTION]
====
Unix allows an user and a group to have the same name. In order to
disambiguate, use the `@` prefix to force the name to be interpreted as
a group. For example, `@dev` would mean the `dev` group and not the `dev` user.
====

---


Plugins can provide additional security realms which may be useful for
incorporating Jenkins into existing identity systems, such as:

* plugin:active-directory[Active Directory]
* plugin:github-oauth[GitHub Authentication]

==== Authorization


The Security Realm, or authentication, indicates _who_ can access the Jenkins
environment. The other piece of the puzzle is *Authorization*, which indicates
_what_ they can access in the Jenkins environment. By default Jenkins supports
a few different Authorization options:


Anyone can do anything:: Everyone gets full control of Jenkins, including
anonymous users who haven't logged in. *Do not use this setting* for anything
other than local test Jenkins controllers.
Legacy mode:: Behaves exactly the same as Jenkins <1.164. Namely, if a user has
the "admin" role, they will be granted full control over the system, and otherwise
(including anonymous users) will only have the read access. *Do not use this
setting* for anything other than local test Jenkins controllers.
Logged in users can do anything:: In this mode, every logged-in user gets full
control of Jenkins. Depending on an advanced option, anonymous users get read
access to Jenkins, or no access at all. This mode is useful to force users to
log in before taking actions, so that there is an audit trail of users' actions.
Matrix-based security:: This authorization scheme allows for granular control
over which users and groups are able to perform which actions in the Jenkins
environment (see the screenshot below).
Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy:: This authorization scheme is an
extension to Matrix-based security which allows additional access control lists
(ACLs) to be defined for *each project* separately in the Project configuration
screen. This allows granting specific users or groups access only to specified
projects, instead of all projects in the Jenkins environment. The ACLs defined
with Project-based Matrix Authorization are additive such that access grants
defined in the Security screen will be combined with
project-specific ACLs.

[NOTE]
====
Matrix-based security and Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy are provided
by the plugin:matrix-auth[Matrix Authorization Strategy Plugin]
and may not be installed on your Jenkins.
====


For most Jenkins environments, Matrix-based security provides the most security
and flexibility so it is recommended as a starting point for "production"
environments.

.Matrix-based security
image::security/configure-global-security-matrix-authorization.png["Security - Matrix authorization", role=center]


The table shown above can get quite wide as each column represents a permission
provided by Jenkins core or a plugin. Hovering the mouse over a permission will
display more information about the permission.

Each row in the table represents a user or group (also known as a "role"). This
includes special entries named "anonymous" and "authenticated." The "anonymous"
entry represents permissions granted to all unauthenticated users accessing the
Jenkins environment. Whereas "authenticated' can be used to grant permissions
to all authenticated users accessing the environment.

The permissions granted in the matrix are additive. For example, if a user
"kohsuke" is in the groups "developers" and "administrators", then the
permissions granted to "kohsuke" will be a union of all those permissions
granted to "kohsuke", "developers", "administrators", "authenticated", and
"anonymous."

=== Markup Formatter

See link:/doc/book/security/markup-formatter/[Markup Formatter].


== CSRF Protection

See link:/doc/book/security/csrf-protection[CSRF Protection].

== Agent/Master Access Control

See link:/doc/book/security/controller-isolation[Isolating the Controller from Builds].
