content/doc/book/installing/_docker.adoc, before:

////
This file is only meant to be included as a snippet in other documents.
There is a version of this file for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
(index.adoc) and another for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
This file is for the index.adoc page used in the general 'Installing Jenkins' page.
If you update content on this page, please ensure the changes are reflected in
the sibling file _docker-for-tutorials.adoc (used in _run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
////


=== On macOS and Linux

. Open up a terminal window.
. Create a link:https://docs.docker.com/network/bridge/[bridge network] in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/network_create/[`docker network create`] command:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker network create jenkins
----
. In order to execute Docker commands inside Jenkins nodes, download and run the `docker:dind` Docker image using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run \
  --name jenkins-docker \# <1>
  --rm \# <2>
  --detach \# <3>
  --privileged \# <4>
  --network jenkins \# <5>
  --network-alias docker \# <6>
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs \# <7>
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client \# <8>
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \# <9>
  --publish 2376:2376 \# <10>
  docker:dind \# <11>
  --storage-driver overlay2# <12>
----
<1> ( _Optional_ ) Specifies the Docker container name to use for running the image.
By default, Docker generates a unique name for the container.
<2> ( _Optional_ ) Automatically removes the Docker container (the replica of the Docker image) when it is shut down.
<3> ( _Optional_ ) Runs the Docker container in the background.
You can stop this process by running `docker stop jenkins-docker`.
<4> Running Docker in Docker currently requires privileged access to function properly.
This requirement may be relaxed with newer Linux kernel versions.
// TODO: what versions of Linux?
<5> This corresponds with the network created in the earlier step.
<6> Makes the Docker in Docker container available as the hostname `docker` within the `jenkins` network.
<7> Enables the use of TLS in the Docker server.
Due to the use of a privileged container, this is recommended, though it requires the use of the shared volume described below.
This environment variable controls the root directory where Docker TLS certificates are managed.
<8> Maps the `/certs/client` directory inside the container to a Docker volume named `jenkins-docker-certs` as created above.
<9> Maps the `/var/jenkins_home` directory inside the container to the Docker volume named `jenkins-data`.
This allows for other Docker containers controlled by this Docker container's Docker daemon to mount data from Jenkins.
<10> ( _Optional_ ) Exposes the Docker daemon port on the host machine.
This is useful for executing `docker` commands on the host machine to control this inner Docker daemon.
<11> The `docker:dind` image itself.
Download this image before running, by using the command: `docker image pull docker:dind`.
<12> The storage driver for the Docker volume.
Refer to the link:https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/select-storage-driver[Docker storage drivers] documentation for supported options.

+
NOTE: If you have problems copying and pasting the above command snippet, use the annotation-free version below:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --name jenkins-docker --rm --detach \
  --privileged --network jenkins --network-alias docker \
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs \
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client \
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  --publish 2376:2376 \
  docker:dind --storage-driver overlay2
----
. Customize the official Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:
.. Create a Dockerfile with the following content:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM jenkins/jenkins:{jenkins-stable}-jdk21
USER root
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y lsb-release ca-certificates curl && \
    install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings && \
    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc && \
    chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc && \
    echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] \
    https://download.docker.com/linux/debian $(. /etc/os-release && echo \"$VERSION_CODENAME\") stable" \
    | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null && \
    apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-ce-cli && \
    apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
USER jenkins
RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean docker-workflow json-path-api"
----
.. Build a new docker image from this Dockerfile, and assign the image a meaningful name, such as "myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1":
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 .
----
If you have not yet downloaded the official Jenkins Docker image, the above process automatically downloads it for you.

. Run your own `myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1` image as a container in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run \
  --name jenkins-blueocean \# <1>
  --restart=on-failure \# <2>
  --detach \# <3>
  --network jenkins \# <4>
  --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 \# <5>
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client \
  --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 \
  --publish 8080:8080 \# <6>
  --publish 50000:50000 \# <7>
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \# <8>
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro \# <9>
  myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 # <10>
----
<1> ( _Optional_ ) Specifies the Docker container name for this instance of the Docker image.
<2> Always restart the container if it stops.
If it is manually stopped, it is restarted only when Docker daemon restarts or the container itself is manually restarted.
<3> ( _Optional_ ) Runs the current container in the background, known as "detached" mode, and outputs the container ID.
If you do not specify this option, then the running Docker log for this container is displayed in the terminal window.
<4> Connects this container to the `jenkins` network previously defined.
The Docker daemon is now available to this Jenkins container through the hostname `docker`.
<5> Specifies the environment variables used by `docker`, `docker-compose`, and other Docker tools to connect to the Docker daemon from the previous step.
<6> Maps, or publishes, port 8080 of the current container to port 8080 on the host machine.
The first number represents the port on the host, while the last represents the container's port.
For example, to access Jenkins on your host machine through port 49000, enter `-p 49000:8080` for this option.
<7> ( _Optional_ ) Maps port 50000 of the current container to port 50000 on the host machine.
This is only necessary if you have set up one or more inbound Jenkins agents on other machines, which in turn interact with your `jenkins-blueocean` container, known as the Jenkins "controller".
Inbound Jenkins agents communicate with the Jenkins controller through TCP port 50000 by default.
You can change this port number on your Jenkins controller through the link:/doc/book/managing/security/[Security] page.
For example, if you update the *TCP port for inbound Jenkins agents* of your Jenkins controller to 51000, you need to re-run Jenkins via the `docker run ...` command.
Specify the "publish" option as follows: the first value is the port number on the machine hosting the Jenkins controller, and the last value matches the changed value on the Jenkins controller, for example,`--publish 52000:51000`.
Inbound Jenkins agents communicate with the Jenkins controller on that port (52000 in this example).
Note that link:/blog/2020/02/02/web-socket/[WebSocket agents] do not need this configuration.
<8> Maps the `/var/jenkins_home` directory in the container to the Docker link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/volumes/volumes/[volume] with the name `jenkins-data`.
Instead of mapping the `/var/jenkins_home` directory to a Docker volume, you can also map this directory to one on your machine's local file system.
For example, specify the option `--volume $HOME/jenkins:/var/jenkins_home` to map the container's `/var/jenkins_home` directory to the `jenkins` subdirectory within the `$HOME` directory on your local machine -- typically `/Users/<your-username>/jenkins` or `/home/<your-username>/jenkins`.
NOTE: If you change the source volume or directory for this, the volume from the `docker:dind` container above needs to be updated to match this.
<9> Maps the `/certs/client` directory to the previously created `jenkins-docker-certs` volume.
The client TLS certificates required to connect to the Docker daemon are now available in the path specified by the `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` environment variable.
<10> The name of the Docker image, which you built in the previous step.

+
NOTE: If you have problems copying and pasting the command snippet, use the annotation-free version below:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --name jenkins-blueocean --restart=on-failure --detach \
  --network jenkins --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 \
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 \
  --publish 8080:8080 --publish 50000:50000 \
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro \
  myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1
----
. Proceed to the <<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.


=== On Windows

The Jenkins project provides a Linux container image, not a Windows container image.
Be sure that your Docker for Windows installation is configured to run `Linux Containers` rather than `Windows Containers`.
Refer to the Docker documentation for instructions to link:https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers[switch to Linux containers].
Once configured to run `Linux Containers`, the steps are:

. Open up a command prompt window and similar to the <<on-macos-and-linux,macOS and Linux>> instructions above do the following:
. Create a bridge network in Docker
+
[source,bash]
----
docker network create jenkins
----
. Run a docker:dind Docker image
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --name jenkins-docker --rm --detach ^
  --privileged --network jenkins --network-alias docker ^
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs ^
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client ^
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home ^
  --publish 2376:2376 ^
  docker:dind
----
. Customize the official Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:
.. Create a Dockerfile with the following content:
+
[source,dockerfile,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM jenkins/jenkins:{jenkins-stable}-jdk21
USER root
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y lsb-release
RUN curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.asc \
  https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg
RUN echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) \
  signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.asc] \
  https://download.docker.com/linux/debian \
  $(lsb_release -cs) stable" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-ce-cli
USER jenkins
RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean docker-workflow json-path-api"
----
.. Build a new docker image from this Dockerfile and assign the image a meaningful name, e.g. "myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1":
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 .
----
If you have not yet downloaded the official Jenkins Docker image, the above process automatically downloads it for you.

. Run your own `myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1` image as a container in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --name jenkins-blueocean --restart=on-failure --detach ^
  --network jenkins --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 ^
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 ^
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home ^
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro ^
  --publish 8080:8080 --publish 50000:50000 myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1
----
. Proceed to the <<setup-wizard,Setup wizard>>.

[[accessing-the-jenkins-blue-ocean-docker-container]]
== Accessing the Docker container

If you want to access your Docker container through a terminal/command prompt using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/exec/[`docker exec`] command, add an option like `--name jenkins-tutorial` to the `docker exec` command.
That will access the Jenkins Docker container named "jenkins-tutorial".

You can access your docker container (through a separate terminal/command prompt window) with a `docker exec` command such as:

`docker exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash`

[[accessing-the-jenkins-console-log-through-docker-logs]]
== Accessing the Docker logs

You may want to access the Jenkins console log, for instance, when <<unlocking-jenkins,Unlocking Jenkins>> as part of the <<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.

Access the Jenkins console log through the terminal/command prompt window from which you executed the `docker run ...` command.
Alternatively, you can also access the Jenkins console log through the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/[Docker logs] of your container using the following command:

`docker logs <docker-container-name>`

Your `<docker-container-name>` can be obtained using the `docker ps` command.


== Accessing the Jenkins home directory

You can access the Jenkins home directory, to check the details of a Jenkins build in the `workspace` subdirectory, for example.

If you mapped the Jenkins home directory (`/var/jenkins_home`) to one on your machine's local file system, for example, in the `docker run ...` command <<downloading-and-running-jenkins-in-docker,above>>, access the directory contents through your machine's usual terminal/command prompt.

If you specified the `--volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home` option in the `docker run ...` command, access the contents of the Jenkins home directory through your container's terminal/command prompt using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_exec/[`docker container exec`] command:

`docker container exec -it <docker-container-name> bash`

As per <<accessing-the-jenkins-console-log-through-docker-logs,the previous section>>, get your `<docker-container-name>` using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_ls/[`docker container ls`] command.
If you specified the `--name jenkins-blueocean` option in the `docker container run ...`  command above (refer to <<accessing-the-jenkins-blue-ocean-docker-container,Accessing the Jenkins/Blue Ocean Docker container>> if needed), use the `docker container exec` command:

`docker container exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash`

////
Might wish to add explaining the `docker run -t` option, which was covered in
the old installation instructions but not above.

Also mention that spinning up a container of the `jenkins/jenkins` Docker
image can be done so with all the same
https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#usage[configuration options] available to
the other images published by the Jenkins project.

Explain colon syntax on Docker image references like
`jenkins/jenkins:latest'.
////

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify Java prerequisites for Jenkins installation

content/doc/book/installing/_docker.adoc, after:

////
This file is only meant to be included as a snippet in other documents.
There is a version of this file for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
(index.adoc) and another for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
This file is for the index.adoc page used in the general 'Installing Jenkins' page.
If you update content on this page, please ensure the changes are reflected in
the sibling file _docker-for-tutorials.adoc (used in _run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
////

== Java Requirement

Jenkins requires Java 17 or Java 21 (64-bit).  
Install Java before proceeding.  
Refer to the [_Installation Requirements_](./_installation_requirements.adoc) page for details.


=== On macOS and Linux

. Open up a terminal window.
. Create a link:https://docs.docker.com/network/bridge/[bridge network] in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/network_create/[`docker network create`] command:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker network create jenkins
----
. In order to execute Docker commands inside Jenkins nodes, download and run the `docker:dind` Docker image using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run \
  --name jenkins-docker \# <1>
  --rm \# <2>
  --detach \# <3>
  --privileged \# <4>
  --network jenkins \# <5>
  --network-alias docker \# <6>
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs \# <7>
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client \# <8>
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \# <9>
  --publish 2376:2376 \# <10>
  docker:dind \# <11>
  --storage-driver overlay2# <12>
----
<1> ( _Optional_ ) Specifies the Docker container name to use for running the image.
By default, Docker generates a unique name for the container.
<2> ( _Optional_ ) Automatically removes the Docker container (the replica of the Docker image) when it is shut down.
<3> ( _Optional_ ) Runs the Docker container in the background.
You can stop this process by running `docker stop jenkins-docker`.
<4> Running Docker in Docker currently requires privileged access to function properly.
This requirement may be relaxed with newer Linux kernel versions.
// TODO: what versions of Linux?
<5> This corresponds with the network created in the earlier step.
<6> Makes the Docker in Docker container available as the hostname `docker` within the `jenkins` network.
<7> Enables the use of TLS in the Docker server.
Due to the use of a privileged container, this is recommended, though it requires the use of the shared volume described below.
This environment variable controls the root directory where Docker TLS certificates are managed.
<8> Maps the `/certs/client` directory inside the container to a Docker volume named `jenkins-docker-certs` as created above.
<9> Maps the `/var/jenkins_home` directory inside the container to the Docker volume named `jenkins-data`.
This allows for other Docker containers controlled by this Docker container's Docker daemon to mount data from Jenkins.
<10> ( _Optional_ ) Exposes the Docker daemon port on the host machine.
This is useful for executing `docker` commands on the host machine to control this inner Docker daemon.
<11> The `docker:dind` image itself.
Download this image before running, by using the command: `docker image pull docker:dind`.
<12> The storage driver for the Docker volume.
Refer to the link:https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/select-storage-driver[Docker storage drivers] documentation for supported options.

+
NOTE: If you have problems copying and pasting the above command snippet, use the annotation-free version below:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --name jenkins-docker --rm --detach \
  --privileged --network jenkins --network-alias docker \
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs \
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client \
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  --publish 2376:2376 \
  docker:dind --storage-driver overlay2
----
. Customize the official Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:
.. Create a Dockerfile with the following content:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM jenkins/jenkins:{jenkins-stable}-jdk21
USER root
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y lsb-release ca-certificates curl && \
    install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings && \
    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc && \
    chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc && \
    echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] \
    https://download.docker.com/linux/debian $(. /etc/os-release && echo \"$VERSION_CODENAME\") stable" \
    | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null && \
    apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-ce-cli && \
    apt-get clean && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
USER jenkins
RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean docker-workflow json-path-api"
----
.. Build a new docker image from this Dockerfile, and assign the image a meaningful name, such as "myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1":
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 .
----
If you have not yet downloaded the official Jenkins Docker image, the above process automatically downloads it for you.

. Run your own `myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1` image as a container in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run \
  --name jenkins-blueocean \# <1>
  --restart=on-failure \# <2>
  --detach \# <3>
  --network jenkins \# <4>
  --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 \# <5>
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client \
  --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 \
  --publish 8080:8080 \# <6>
  --publish 50000:50000 \# <7>
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \# <8>
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro \# <9>
  myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 # <10>
----
<1> ( _Optional_ ) Specifies the Docker container name for this instance of the Docker image.
<2> Always restart the container if it stops.
If it is manually stopped, it is restarted only when Docker daemon restarts or the container itself is manually restarted.
<3> ( _Optional_ ) Runs the current container in the background, known as "detached" mode, and outputs the container ID.
If you do not specify this option, then the running Docker log for this container is displayed in the terminal window.
<4> Connects this container to the `jenkins` network previously defined.
The Docker daemon is now available to this Jenkins container through the hostname `docker`.
<5> Specifies the environment variables used by `docker`, `docker-compose`, and other Docker tools to connect to the Docker daemon from the previous step.
<6> Maps, or publishes, port 8080 of the current container to port 8080 on the host machine.
The first number represents the port on the host, while the last represents the container's port.
For example, to access Jenkins on your host machine through port 49000, enter `-p 49000:8080` for this option.
<7> ( _Optional_ ) Maps port 50000 of the current container to port 50000 on the host machine.
This is only necessary if you have set up one or more inbound Jenkins agents on other machines, which in turn interact with your `jenkins-blueocean` container, known as the Jenkins "controller".
Inbound Jenkins agents communicate with the Jenkins controller through TCP port 50000 by default.
You can change this port number on your Jenkins controller through the link:/doc/book/managing/security/[Security] page.
For example, if you update the *TCP port for inbound Jenkins agents* of your Jenkins controller to 51000, you need to re-run Jenkins via the `docker run ...` command.
Specify the "publish" option as follows: the first value is the port number on the machine hosting the Jenkins controller, and the last value matches the changed value on the Jenkins controller, for example,`--publish 52000:51000`.
Inbound Jenkins agents communicate with the Jenkins controller on that port (52000 in this example).
Note that link:/blog/2020/02/02/web-socket/[WebSocket agents] do not need this configuration.
<8> Maps the `/var/jenkins_home` directory in the container to the Docker link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/volumes/volumes/[volume] with the name `jenkins-data`.
Instead of mapping the `/var/jenkins_home` directory to a Docker volume, you can also map this directory to one on your machine's local file system.
For example, specify the option `--volume $HOME/jenkins:/var/jenkins_home` to map the container's `/var/jenkins_home` directory to the `jenkins` subdirectory within the `$HOME` directory on your local machine -- typically `/Users/<your-username>/jenkins` or `/home/<your-username>/jenkins`.
NOTE: If you change the source volume or directory for this, the volume from the `docker:dind` container above needs to be updated to match this.
<9> Maps the `/certs/client` directory to the previously created `jenkins-docker-certs` volume.
The client TLS certificates required to connect to the Docker daemon are now available in the path specified by the `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` environment variable.
<10> The name of the Docker image, which you built in the previous step.

+
NOTE: If you have problems copying and pasting the command snippet, use the annotation-free version below:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --name jenkins-blueocean --restart=on-failure --detach \
  --network jenkins --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 \
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 \
  --publish 8080:8080 --publish 50000:50000 \
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home \
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro \
  myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1
----
. Proceed to the <<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.


=== On Windows

The Jenkins project provides a Linux container image, not a Windows container image.
Be sure that your Docker for Windows installation is configured to run `Linux Containers` rather than `Windows Containers`.
Refer to the Docker documentation for instructions to link:https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers[switch to Linux containers].
Once configured to run `Linux Containers`, the steps are:

. Open up a command prompt window and similar to the <<on-macos-and-linux,macOS and Linux>> instructions above do the following:
. Create a bridge network in Docker
+
[source,bash]
----
docker network create jenkins
----
. Run a docker:dind Docker image
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --name jenkins-docker --rm --detach ^
  --privileged --network jenkins --network-alias docker ^
  --env DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR=/certs ^
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client ^
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home ^
  --publish 2376:2376 ^
  docker:dind
----
. Customize the official Jenkins Docker image, by executing the following two steps:
.. Create a Dockerfile with the following content:
+
[source,dockerfile,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM jenkins/jenkins:{jenkins-stable}-jdk21
USER root
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y lsb-release
RUN curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.asc \
  https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg
RUN echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) \
  signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.asc] \
  https://download.docker.com/linux/debian \
  $(lsb_release -cs) stable" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker-ce-cli
USER jenkins
RUN jenkins-plugin-cli --plugins "blueocean docker-workflow json-path-api"
----
.. Build a new docker image from this Dockerfile and assign the image a meaningful name, e.g. "myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1":
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1 .
----
If you have not yet downloaded the official Jenkins Docker image, the above process automatically downloads it for you.

. Run your own `myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1` image as a container in Docker using the following link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/[`docker run`] command:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --name jenkins-blueocean --restart=on-failure --detach ^
  --network jenkins --env DOCKER_HOST=tcp://docker:2376 ^
  --env DOCKER_CERT_PATH=/certs/client --env DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1 ^
  --volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home ^
  --volume jenkins-docker-certs:/certs/client:ro ^
  --publish 8080:8080 --publish 50000:50000 myjenkins-blueocean:{jenkins-stable}-1
----
. Proceed to the <<setup-wizard,Setup wizard>>.

[[accessing-the-jenkins-blue-ocean-docker-container]]
== Accessing the Docker container

If you want to access your Docker container through a terminal/command prompt using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/exec/[`docker exec`] command, add an option like `--name jenkins-tutorial` to the `docker exec` command.
That will access the Jenkins Docker container named "jenkins-tutorial".

You can access your docker container (through a separate terminal/command prompt window) with a `docker exec` command such as:

`docker exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash`

[[accessing-the-jenkins-console-log-through-docker-logs]]
== Accessing the Docker logs

You may want to access the Jenkins console log, for instance, when <<unlocking-jenkins,Unlocking Jenkins>> as part of the <<setup-wizard,Post-installation setup wizard>>.

Access the Jenkins console log through the terminal/command prompt window from which you executed the `docker run ...` command.
Alternatively, you can also access the Jenkins console log through the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/[Docker logs] of your container using the following command:

`docker logs <docker-container-name>`

Your `<docker-container-name>` can be obtained using the `docker ps` command.


== Accessing the Jenkins home directory

You can access the Jenkins home directory, to check the details of a Jenkins build in the `workspace` subdirectory, for example.

If you mapped the Jenkins home directory (`/var/jenkins_home`) to one on your machine's local file system, for example, in the `docker run ...` command <<downloading-and-running-jenkins-in-docker,above>>, access the directory contents through your machine's usual terminal/command prompt.

If you specified the `--volume jenkins-data:/var/jenkins_home` option in the `docker run ...` command, access the contents of the Jenkins home directory through your container's terminal/command prompt using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_exec/[`docker container exec`] command:

`docker container exec -it <docker-container-name> bash`

As per <<accessing-the-jenkins-console-log-through-docker-logs,the previous section>>, get your `<docker-container-name>` using the link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/container_ls/[`docker container ls`] command.
If you specified the `--name jenkins-blueocean` option in the `docker container run ...`  command above (refer to <<accessing-the-jenkins-blue-ocean-docker-container,Accessing the Jenkins/Blue Ocean Docker container>> if needed), use the `docker container exec` command:

`docker container exec -it jenkins-blueocean bash`

////
Might wish to add explaining the `docker run -t` option, which was covered in
the old installation instructions but not above.

Also mention that spinning up a container of the `jenkins/jenkins` Docker
image can be done so with all the same
https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#usage[configuration options] available to
the other images published by the Jenkins project.

Explain colon syntax on Docker image references like
`jenkins/jenkins:latest'.
////
