content/doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc, before:

////
This file is only meant to be included as a snippet in other documents.
There is a version of this file for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
(index.adoc) and another for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
This file is for the index.adoc page used in the general 'Installing Jenkins'
page.
////

== Prerequisites

Minimum hardware requirements:

* 256 MB of RAM
* 1 GB of drive space (although 10 GB is a recommended minimum if running
  Jenkins as a Docker container)

Recommended hardware configuration for a small team:

* 4 GB+ of RAM
* 50 GB+ of drive space

Comprehensive hardware recommendations:

* Hardware: see the link:/doc/book/scaling/hardware-recommendations[Hardware Recommendations] page

Software requirements:

* Java: see the link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-java/[Java Requirements] page
* Web browser: see the link:/doc/administration/requirements/web-browsers/[Web Browser Compatibility] page
* For Windows operating system: link:/doc/administration/requirements/windows/[Windows Support Policy]
* For Linux operating system: link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-linux/[Linux Support Policy]
* For servlet containers: link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-servlet-containers/[Servlet Container Support Policy]

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify Java prerequisites for Jenkins installation

content/doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc, after:

////
This file is only meant to be included as a snippet in other documents.
There is a version of this file for the general 'Installing Jenkins' page
(index.adoc) and another for tutorials (_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc).
This file is for the index.adoc page used in the general 'Installing Jenkins'
page.
////

== Java Requirement

Jenkins requires Java 17 or Java 21 (64-bit).  
Install Java before proceeding.  
Refer to the [_Installation Requirements_](./_installation_requirements.adoc) page for details.


== Prerequisites

Minimum hardware requirements:

* 256 MB of RAM
* 1 GB of drive space (although 10 GB is a recommended minimum if running
  Jenkins as a Docker container)

Recommended hardware configuration for a small team:

* 4 GB+ of RAM
* 50 GB+ of drive space

Comprehensive hardware recommendations:

* Hardware: see the link:/doc/book/scaling/hardware-recommendations[Hardware Recommendations] page

Software requirements:

* Java: see the link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-java/[Java Requirements] page
* Web browser: see the link:/doc/administration/requirements/web-browsers/[Web Browser Compatibility] page
* For Windows operating system: link:/doc/administration/requirements/windows/[Windows Support Policy]
* For Linux operating system: link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-linux/[Linux Support Policy]
* For servlet containers: link:/doc/book/platform-information/support-policy-servlet-containers/[Servlet Container Support Policy]
