content/doc/book/installing/_kubernetes.adoc, before:

== Install Jenkins with Helm v3

A typical Jenkins deployment consists of a controller node and, optionally, one or more agents. To simplify the deployment of Jenkins, we’ll use link:https://helm.sh/[Helm] to deploy Jenkins.
Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes and its package format is called a chart.
Many community-developed charts are available on link:https://github.com/helm/charts[GitHub].

Helm Charts provide “push button” deployment and deletion of apps, making adoption and development of Kubernetes apps easier for those with little container or microservices experience.

=== Prerequisites

Helm command line interface::
If you don't have Helm command line interface installed and configured locally, see the sections below to <<Install Helm>> and <<Configure Helm>>.

=== Install Helm

To install Helm CLI, follow the instructions from the link:https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[Installing Helm] page.

=== Configure Helm
Once Helm is installed and set up properly, add the Jenkins repo as follows:

[source,bash]
----
helm repo add jenkinsci https://charts.jenkins.io
helm repo update
----

The helm charts in the Jenkins repo can be listed with the command:

[source,bash]
----
helm search repo jenkinsci
----

=== Create a persistent volume

We want to create a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/[persistent volume] for our Jenkins controller pod.
This will prevent us from losing our whole configuration of the Jenkins controller and our jobs when we reboot our minikube.
This link:https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/persistent_volumes/[official minikube doc] explains which directories we can use to mount or data.
In a multi-node Kubernetes cluster, you’ll need some solution like NFS to make the mount directory available in the whole cluster.
But because we use minikube which is a one-node cluster we don’t have to bother about it.

We choose to use the `/data` directory. This directory will contain our Jenkins controller configuration.

*We will create a volume which is called jenkins-pv:*

. Paste the content from link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-01-volume.yaml[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-01-volume.yaml] into a YAML formatted file called `jenkins-01-volume.yaml`.
. Run the following command to apply the spec:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f jenkins-01-volume.yaml
----

NOTE: It’s worth noting that, in the above spec, hostPath uses the /data/jenkins-volume/ of your node to emulate network-attached storage.
This approach is only suited for development and testing purposes.
For production, you should provide a network resource like a Google Compute Engine persistent disk, or an Amazon Elastic Block Store volume.

[NOTE]
====
Minikube configured for hostPath sets the permissions on /data to the root account only. Once the volume is created you will need to manually change the permissions to allow the jenkins account to write its data.
[source,bash]
----
minikube ssh
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 /data/jenkins-volume
----
====

=== Create a service account

In Kubernetes, service accounts are used to provide an identity for pods.
Pods that want to interact with the API server will authenticate with a
particular service account.
By default, applications will authenticate as the `default` service account in
the namespace they are running in.
This means, for example, that an application running in the `test` namespace
will use the default service account of the `test` namespace.

*We will create a service account called jenkins:*

A ClusterRole is a set of permissions that can be assigned to resources within a given cluster.
Kubernetes APIs are categorized into API groups, based on the API objects that they relate to.
While creating a ClusterRole, you can specify the operations that can be performed by the ClusterRole on one or more API objects in one or more API groups, just as we have done above.
ClusterRoles have several uses. You can use a ClusterRole to:

* define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted within individual namespace(s)
* define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted across all namespaces
* define permissions on cluster-scoped resources

If you want to define a role cluster-wide, use a ClusterRole;
if you want to define a role within a namespace, use a Role.

A role binding grants the permissions defined in a role to a user or set of users.
It holds a list of subjects (users, groups, or service accounts), and a reference to the role being granted.

A RoleBinding may reference any Role in the same namespace.
Alternatively, a RoleBinding can reference a ClusterRole and bind that ClusterRole to the namespace of the RoleBinding.
To bind a ClusterRole to all the namespaces in our cluster, we use a ClusterRoleBinding.

. Paste the content from link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-02-sa.yaml[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-02-sa.yaml] into a YAML formatted file called
`jenkins-02-sa.yaml`.
+
. Run the following command to apply the spec:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f jenkins-02-sa.yaml
----

=== Install Jenkins

We will deploy Jenkins including the Jenkins Kubernetes plugin.
See the https://github.com/jenkinsci/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/jenkins[official chart] for more details.

. To enable persistence, we will create an override file and pass it as an argument to the
  Helm CLI.
   Paste the content from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/helm-charts/main/charts/jenkins/values.yaml into a YAML formatted file called `jenkins-values.yaml`.
+
The `jenkins-values.yaml` is used as a template to provide values that are necessary for setup.

. Open the `jenkins-values.yaml` file in your favorite text editor and modify the following:

  * nodePort: Because we are using minikube we need to use NodePort as service type. Only cloud providers offer load balancers. We define port 32000 as port.

    * storageClass:
+
[source,yaml]
----
storageClass: jenkins-pv
----

    * serviceAccount: the serviceAccount section of the `jenkins-values.yaml` file should look like this:
+
[source,yaml]
----
serviceAccount:
  create: false
# Service account name is autogenerated by default
name: jenkins
annotations: {}
----

    Where `name: jenkins` refers to the serviceAccount created for jenkins.

    * We can also define which plugins we want to install on our Jenkins.
      We use some default plugins like git and the pipeline plugin.

. Now you can install Jenkins by running the `helm install` command and passing it the
  following arguments:

  * The name of the release `jenkins`
  * The -f flag with the YAML file with overrides `jenkins-values.yaml`
  * The name of the chart `jenkinsci/jenkins`
  * The `-n` flag with the name of your namespace `jenkins`
+
[source,bash]
----
chart=jenkinsci/jenkins
helm install jenkins -n jenkins -f jenkins-values.yaml $chart
----
+
  This outputs something similar to the following:
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME: jenkins
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 16 11:13:10 2020
NAMESPACE: jenkins
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
----

[NOTE]
1. Get your 'admin' user password by running:
+

[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
secret=$(kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo $(echo $secret | base64 --decode)
----
2. Get the Jenkins URL to visit by running these commands in the same shell:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}"
NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get -n jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath services jenkins)
jsonpath="{.items[0].status.addresses[0].address}"
NODE_IP=$(kubectl get nodes -n jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo http://$NODE_IP:$NODE_PORT/login
----
3. Login with the password from step 1 and the username: admin
4. Use Jenkins Configuration as Code by specifying configScripts in your adaptation of the values.yaml file.
   See the plugin:configuration-as-code[configuration as code documentation] and  https://github.com/jenkinsci/configuration-as-code-plugin/tree/master/demos[examples].

Visit the link:https://cloud.google.com/solutions/jenkins-on-container-engine[Jenkins on Kubernetes solutions page] for more information on running Jenkins on Kubernetes.
Visit the link:/projects/jcasc/[Jenkins Configuration as Code project] for more information on configuration as code.
. Depending on your environment, it can take a bit of time for Jenkins to start up. Enter the
  following command to inspect the status of your Pod:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

Once Jenkins is installed, the status should be  set to Running as in the following output:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
jenkins-645fbf58d6-6xfvj   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

. To access your Jenkins server, you must retrieve the password. You can retrieve your password
  using either of the two options below.
+
*Option 1*
+
Run the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
secret=$(kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo $(echo $secret | base64 --decode)
----
+
The output should look like this:
+
[source]
----
Um1kJLOWQY
----
+
[NOTE]
====
👆🏻Note that your password will be different.
====
+
*Option 2*
+
Run the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath
----
+
The output should be a **base64 encoded string** like this:
+
[source]
----
WkIwRkdnbDZYZg==
----
+
Decode the base64 string and you have your password. You can use link:https://www.base64decode.org/[this website] to decode your output.

. Get the name of the Pod running that is running Jenkins using the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

. Use the kubectl command to set up port forwarding:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n jenkins port-forward <pod_name> 8080:8080
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
----

Visit http://127.0.0.1:8080/ and log in using `admin` as the username and the password you retrieved earlier.

== Install Jenkins with YAML files

This section describes how to use a set of YAML (Yet Another Markup Language) files to install Jenkins on a Kubernetes cluster.
The YAML files are easily tracked, edited, and can be reused indefinitely.

=== Create Jenkins deployment file

Copy the contents link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml[here] into your preferred text editor and create a jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml file in the “jenkins” namespace we created in this link:/doc/book/installing/kubernetes/#create-a-namespace[section] above.

* This link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml[deployment file] is defining a Deployment as indicated by the `kind` field.
* The Deployment specifies a single replica. This ensures one and only one instance
will be maintained by the Replication Controller in the event of failure.
* The container image name is `jenkins` and version is a floating tag `lts-jdk21`
(for determinism, you may want a specific version tag like `2.32.2` instead -- but
then you would have to update and re-apply it with iterations of this file).
Note you may have to set up an `imagePullPolicy: Always` to pull new images according
to changes of the floating tag (e.g. when new LTS is released).
* The list of ports specified within the spec are a list of ports to expose from
the container on the Pods IP address.
** Jenkins running on (http) port 8080.
** The Pod exposes the port 8080 of the jenkins container.
* The volumeMounts section of the file creates a Persistent Volume.
This volume is mounted within the container at the path /var/jenkins_home and
so modifications to data within /var/jenkins_home are written to the volume.
The role of a persistent volume is to store basic Jenkins data and preserve it
beyond the lifetime of a pod.

Exit and save the changes once you add the content to the Jenkins deployment file.

=== Deploy Jenkins

To create the deployment execute:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml -n jenkins
----

The command also instructs the system to install Jenkins within the jenkins namespace.

To validate that creating the deployment was successful you can invoke:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get deployments -n jenkins
----

=== Grant access to Jenkins service

We have a Jenkins controller deployed but it is still not accessible.
The Jenkins Pod has been assigned an IP address that is internal to the Kubernetes cluster.
It’s possible to log into the Kubernetes Node and access Jenkins from there but that’s not a very useful way to access the service.

To make Jenkins accessible outside the Kubernetes cluster the Pod needs to be exposed as a Service.
A Service is an abstraction that exposes Jenkins to the wider network.
It allows us to maintain a persistent connection to the pod regardless of the changes in the cluster.
With a local deployment, this means creating a NodePort service type.
A NodePort service type exposes a service on a port on each node in the cluster.
The service is accessed through the Node IP address and the service nodePort.
A simple service is defined link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml[here]:

* This link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml[service file] is defining a Service as
indicated by the `kind` field.
* The Service is of type NodePort. Other options are ClusterIP (only accessible within the cluster) and LoadBalancer (IP address assigned by a cloud provider e.g. AWS Elastic IP).
* The list of ports specified within the spec is a list of ports exposed by this service.
** The port is the port that will be exposed by the service.
** The target port is the port to access the Pods targeted by this service. A port name may also be specified.
* The selector specifies the selection criteria for the Pods targeted by this service.

To create the service execute:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml -n jenkins
----

To validate that creating the service was successful you can run:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get services -n jenkins
NAME       TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP    PORT(S)           AGE
jenkins    NodePort    10.103.31.217    <none>         8080:32664/TCP    59s
----

=== Access Jenkins dashboard

So now we have created a deployment and service, how do we access Jenkins?

From the output above we can see that the service has been exposed on port 32664.
We also know that because the service is of type NodeType the service will route
requests made to any node on this port to the Jenkins pod.
All that’s left for us is to determine the IP address of the minikube VM.
Minikube have made this really simple by including a specific command that outputs
the IP address of the running cluster:

[source,bash]
----
minikube ip
192.168.99.100
----

Now we can access the Jenkins controller at http://192.168.99.100:32664/

To access Jenkins, you initially need to enter your credentials.
The default username for new installations is admin.
The password can be obtained in several ways.
This example uses the Jenkins deployment pod name.

To find the name of the pod, enter the following command:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

Once you locate the name of the pod, use it to access the pod’s logs.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl logs <pod_name> -n jenkins
----

The password is at the end of the log formatted as a long alphanumeric string:

[source]
----
*************************************************************
*************************************************************
*************************************************************

Jenkins initial setup is required.
An admin user has been created and a password generated.
Please use the following password to proceed to installation:

94b73ef6578c4b4692a157f768b2cfef

This may also be found at:
/var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword

*************************************************************
*************************************************************
*************************************************************
----

You have successfully installed Jenkins on your Kubernetes cluster and can use it to create new and efficient development pipelines.

== Install Jenkins with Jenkins Operator

The link:https://jenkinsci.github.io/kubernetes-operator/docs/[Jenkins Operator] is a Kubernetes native Operator which manages operations
for Jenkins on Kubernetes.

It was built with immutability and declarative configuration as code in mind, to automate many of the manual tasks required
to deploy and run Jenkins on Kubernetes.

Jenkins Operator is easy to install with applying just a few yaml manifests or with the use of Helm.

For instructions on installing Jenkins Operator on your Kubernetes cluster and deploying and configuring Jenkins there,
see link:https://jenkinsci.github.io/kubernetes-operator/docs/getting-started/latest/[official documentation of Jenkins Operator].

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify Java prerequisites for Jenkins installation

content/doc/book/installing/_kubernetes.adoc, after:

== Java Requirement

Jenkins requires Java 17 or Java 21 (64-bit).  
Install Java before proceeding.  
Refer to the [_Installation Requirements_](./_installation_requirements.adoc) page for details.

== Install Jenkins with Helm v3

A typical Jenkins deployment consists of a controller node and, optionally, one or more agents. To simplify the deployment of Jenkins, we’ll use link:https://helm.sh/[Helm] to deploy Jenkins.
Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes and its package format is called a chart.
Many community-developed charts are available on link:https://github.com/helm/charts[GitHub].

Helm Charts provide “push button” deployment and deletion of apps, making adoption and development of Kubernetes apps easier for those with little container or microservices experience.

=== Prerequisites

Helm command line interface::
If you don't have Helm command line interface installed and configured locally, see the sections below to <<Install Helm>> and <<Configure Helm>>.

=== Install Helm

To install Helm CLI, follow the instructions from the link:https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[Installing Helm] page.

=== Configure Helm
Once Helm is installed and set up properly, add the Jenkins repo as follows:

[source,bash]
----
helm repo add jenkinsci https://charts.jenkins.io
helm repo update
----

The helm charts in the Jenkins repo can be listed with the command:

[source,bash]
----
helm search repo jenkinsci
----

=== Create a persistent volume

We want to create a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/[persistent volume] for our Jenkins controller pod.
This will prevent us from losing our whole configuration of the Jenkins controller and our jobs when we reboot our minikube.
This link:https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/persistent_volumes/[official minikube doc] explains which directories we can use to mount or data.
In a multi-node Kubernetes cluster, you’ll need some solution like NFS to make the mount directory available in the whole cluster.
But because we use minikube which is a one-node cluster we don’t have to bother about it.

We choose to use the `/data` directory. This directory will contain our Jenkins controller configuration.

*We will create a volume which is called jenkins-pv:*

. Paste the content from link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-01-volume.yaml[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-01-volume.yaml] into a YAML formatted file called `jenkins-01-volume.yaml`.
. Run the following command to apply the spec:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f jenkins-01-volume.yaml
----

NOTE: It’s worth noting that, in the above spec, hostPath uses the /data/jenkins-volume/ of your node to emulate network-attached storage.
This approach is only suited for development and testing purposes.
For production, you should provide a network resource like a Google Compute Engine persistent disk, or an Amazon Elastic Block Store volume.

[NOTE]
====
Minikube configured for hostPath sets the permissions on /data to the root account only. Once the volume is created you will need to manually change the permissions to allow the jenkins account to write its data.
[source,bash]
----
minikube ssh
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 /data/jenkins-volume
----
====

=== Create a service account

In Kubernetes, service accounts are used to provide an identity for pods.
Pods that want to interact with the API server will authenticate with a
particular service account.
By default, applications will authenticate as the `default` service account in
the namespace they are running in.
This means, for example, that an application running in the `test` namespace
will use the default service account of the `test` namespace.

*We will create a service account called jenkins:*

A ClusterRole is a set of permissions that can be assigned to resources within a given cluster.
Kubernetes APIs are categorized into API groups, based on the API objects that they relate to.
While creating a ClusterRole, you can specify the operations that can be performed by the ClusterRole on one or more API objects in one or more API groups, just as we have done above.
ClusterRoles have several uses. You can use a ClusterRole to:

* define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted within individual namespace(s)
* define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted across all namespaces
* define permissions on cluster-scoped resources

If you want to define a role cluster-wide, use a ClusterRole;
if you want to define a role within a namespace, use a Role.

A role binding grants the permissions defined in a role to a user or set of users.
It holds a list of subjects (users, groups, or service accounts), and a reference to the role being granted.

A RoleBinding may reference any Role in the same namespace.
Alternatively, a RoleBinding can reference a ClusterRole and bind that ClusterRole to the namespace of the RoleBinding.
To bind a ClusterRole to all the namespaces in our cluster, we use a ClusterRoleBinding.

. Paste the content from link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-02-sa.yaml[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkins-02-sa.yaml] into a YAML formatted file called
`jenkins-02-sa.yaml`.
+
. Run the following command to apply the spec:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f jenkins-02-sa.yaml
----

=== Install Jenkins

We will deploy Jenkins including the Jenkins Kubernetes plugin.
See the https://github.com/jenkinsci/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/jenkins[official chart] for more details.

. To enable persistence, we will create an override file and pass it as an argument to the
  Helm CLI.
   Paste the content from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkinsci/helm-charts/main/charts/jenkins/values.yaml into a YAML formatted file called `jenkins-values.yaml`.
+
The `jenkins-values.yaml` is used as a template to provide values that are necessary for setup.

. Open the `jenkins-values.yaml` file in your favorite text editor and modify the following:

  * nodePort: Because we are using minikube we need to use NodePort as service type. Only cloud providers offer load balancers. We define port 32000 as port.

    * storageClass:
+
[source,yaml]
----
storageClass: jenkins-pv
----

    * serviceAccount: the serviceAccount section of the `jenkins-values.yaml` file should look like this:
+
[source,yaml]
----
serviceAccount:
  create: false
# Service account name is autogenerated by default
name: jenkins
annotations: {}
----

    Where `name: jenkins` refers to the serviceAccount created for jenkins.

    * We can also define which plugins we want to install on our Jenkins.
      We use some default plugins like git and the pipeline plugin.

. Now you can install Jenkins by running the `helm install` command and passing it the
  following arguments:

  * The name of the release `jenkins`
  * The -f flag with the YAML file with overrides `jenkins-values.yaml`
  * The name of the chart `jenkinsci/jenkins`
  * The `-n` flag with the name of your namespace `jenkins`
+
[source,bash]
----
chart=jenkinsci/jenkins
helm install jenkins -n jenkins -f jenkins-values.yaml $chart
----
+
  This outputs something similar to the following:
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME: jenkins
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Sep 16 11:13:10 2020
NAMESPACE: jenkins
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
----

[NOTE]
1. Get your 'admin' user password by running:
+

[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
secret=$(kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo $(echo $secret | base64 --decode)
----
2. Get the Jenkins URL to visit by running these commands in the same shell:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}"
NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get -n jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath services jenkins)
jsonpath="{.items[0].status.addresses[0].address}"
NODE_IP=$(kubectl get nodes -n jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo http://$NODE_IP:$NODE_PORT/login
----
3. Login with the password from step 1 and the username: admin
4. Use Jenkins Configuration as Code by specifying configScripts in your adaptation of the values.yaml file.
   See the plugin:configuration-as-code[configuration as code documentation] and  https://github.com/jenkinsci/configuration-as-code-plugin/tree/master/demos[examples].

Visit the link:https://cloud.google.com/solutions/jenkins-on-container-engine[Jenkins on Kubernetes solutions page] for more information on running Jenkins on Kubernetes.
Visit the link:/projects/jcasc/[Jenkins Configuration as Code project] for more information on configuration as code.
. Depending on your environment, it can take a bit of time for Jenkins to start up. Enter the
  following command to inspect the status of your Pod:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

Once Jenkins is installed, the status should be  set to Running as in the following output:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
jenkins-645fbf58d6-6xfvj   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

. To access your Jenkins server, you must retrieve the password. You can retrieve your password
  using either of the two options below.
+
*Option 1*
+
Run the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
secret=$(kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath)
echo $(echo $secret | base64 --decode)
----
+
The output should look like this:
+
[source]
----
Um1kJLOWQY
----
+
[NOTE]
====
👆🏻Note that your password will be different.
====
+
*Option 2*
+
Run the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
jsonpath="{.data.jenkins-admin-password}"
kubectl get secret -n jenkins jenkins -o jsonpath=$jsonpath
----
+
The output should be a **base64 encoded string** like this:
+
[source]
----
WkIwRkdnbDZYZg==
----
+
Decode the base64 string and you have your password. You can use link:https://www.base64decode.org/[this website] to decode your output.

. Get the name of the Pod running that is running Jenkins using the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

. Use the kubectl command to set up port forwarding:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n jenkins port-forward <pod_name> 8080:8080
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
----

Visit http://127.0.0.1:8080/ and log in using `admin` as the username and the password you retrieved earlier.

== Install Jenkins with YAML files

This section describes how to use a set of YAML (Yet Another Markup Language) files to install Jenkins on a Kubernetes cluster.
The YAML files are easily tracked, edited, and can be reused indefinitely.

=== Create Jenkins deployment file

Copy the contents link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml[here] into your preferred text editor and create a jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml file in the “jenkins” namespace we created in this link:/doc/book/installing/kubernetes/#create-a-namespace[section] above.

* This link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml[deployment file] is defining a Deployment as indicated by the `kind` field.
* The Deployment specifies a single replica. This ensures one and only one instance
will be maintained by the Replication Controller in the event of failure.
* The container image name is `jenkins` and version is a floating tag `lts-jdk21`
(for determinism, you may want a specific version tag like `2.32.2` instead -- but
then you would have to update and re-apply it with iterations of this file).
Note you may have to set up an `imagePullPolicy: Always` to pull new images according
to changes of the floating tag (e.g. when new LTS is released).
* The list of ports specified within the spec are a list of ports to expose from
the container on the Pods IP address.
** Jenkins running on (http) port 8080.
** The Pod exposes the port 8080 of the jenkins container.
* The volumeMounts section of the file creates a Persistent Volume.
This volume is mounted within the container at the path /var/jenkins_home and
so modifications to data within /var/jenkins_home are written to the volume.
The role of a persistent volume is to store basic Jenkins data and preserve it
beyond the lifetime of a pod.

Exit and save the changes once you add the content to the Jenkins deployment file.

=== Deploy Jenkins

To create the deployment execute:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f jenkinsHelm-03-deployment.yaml -n jenkins
----

The command also instructs the system to install Jenkins within the jenkins namespace.

To validate that creating the deployment was successful you can invoke:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get deployments -n jenkins
----

=== Grant access to Jenkins service

We have a Jenkins controller deployed but it is still not accessible.
The Jenkins Pod has been assigned an IP address that is internal to the Kubernetes cluster.
It’s possible to log into the Kubernetes Node and access Jenkins from there but that’s not a very useful way to access the service.

To make Jenkins accessible outside the Kubernetes cluster the Pod needs to be exposed as a Service.
A Service is an abstraction that exposes Jenkins to the wider network.
It allows us to maintain a persistent connection to the pod regardless of the changes in the cluster.
With a local deployment, this means creating a NodePort service type.
A NodePort service type exposes a service on a port on each node in the cluster.
The service is accessed through the Node IP address and the service nodePort.
A simple service is defined link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml[here]:

* This link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/master/content/doc/tutorials/kubernetes/installing-jenkins-on-kubernetes/jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml[service file] is defining a Service as
indicated by the `kind` field.
* The Service is of type NodePort. Other options are ClusterIP (only accessible within the cluster) and LoadBalancer (IP address assigned by a cloud provider e.g. AWS Elastic IP).
* The list of ports specified within the spec is a list of ports exposed by this service.
** The port is the port that will be exposed by the service.
** The target port is the port to access the Pods targeted by this service. A port name may also be specified.
* The selector specifies the selection criteria for the Pods targeted by this service.

To create the service execute:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl create -f jenkinsHelm-04-service.yaml -n jenkins
----

To validate that creating the service was successful you can run:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get services -n jenkins
NAME       TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP    PORT(S)           AGE
jenkins    NodePort    10.103.31.217    <none>         8080:32664/TCP    59s
----

=== Access Jenkins dashboard

So now we have created a deployment and service, how do we access Jenkins?

From the output above we can see that the service has been exposed on port 32664.
We also know that because the service is of type NodeType the service will route
requests made to any node on this port to the Jenkins pod.
All that’s left for us is to determine the IP address of the minikube VM.
Minikube have made this really simple by including a specific command that outputs
the IP address of the running cluster:

[source,bash]
----
minikube ip
192.168.99.100
----

Now we can access the Jenkins controller at http://192.168.99.100:32664/

To access Jenkins, you initially need to enter your credentials.
The default username for new installations is admin.
The password can be obtained in several ways.
This example uses the Jenkins deployment pod name.

To find the name of the pod, enter the following command:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -n jenkins
----

Once you locate the name of the pod, use it to access the pod’s logs.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl logs <pod_name> -n jenkins
----

The password is at the end of the log formatted as a long alphanumeric string:

[source]
----
*************************************************************
*************************************************************
*************************************************************

Jenkins initial setup is required.
An admin user has been created and a password generated.
Please use the following password to proceed to installation:

94b73ef6578c4b4692a157f768b2cfef

This may also be found at:
/var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword

*************************************************************
*************************************************************
*************************************************************
----

You have successfully installed Jenkins on your Kubernetes cluster and can use it to create new and efficient development pipelines.

== Install Jenkins with Jenkins Operator

The link:https://jenkinsci.github.io/kubernetes-operator/docs/[Jenkins Operator] is a Kubernetes native Operator which manages operations
for Jenkins on Kubernetes.

It was built with immutability and declarative configuration as code in mind, to automate many of the manual tasks required
to deploy and run Jenkins on Kubernetes.

Jenkins Operator is easy to install with applying just a few yaml manifests or with the use of Helm.

For instructions on installing Jenkins Operator on your Kubernetes cluster and deploying and configuring Jenkins there,
see link:https://jenkinsci.github.io/kubernetes-operator/docs/getting-started/latest/[official documentation of Jenkins Operator].
