content/doc/book/installing/docker.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Docker
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

////
IMPORTANT: If you update content in this section, please ensure you check these
changes against the procedures documented in the
'tutorials/_prerequisites.adoc' file, which is used in the Guided Tour of the
Jenkins Documentation.
////

link:https://docs.docker.com/get-started/overview/[Docker] is a platform for running applications in an isolated environment called a "container" (or Docker container).
Applications like Jenkins can be downloaded as read-only "images" (or Docker images), each of which is run in Docker as a container.
A Docker container is a "running instance" of a Docker image.
A Docker image is stored permanently, based on when image updates are published, whereas containers are stored temporarily.
Learn more about these concepts in link:https://docs.docker.com/get-started/[Getting Started, Part 1: Orientation and setup] in the Docker documentation.

Due to Docker's fundamental platform and container design, a Docker image for a given application, such as Jenkins, can be run on any supported operating system or cloud service also running Docker.
Supported operating systems include macOS, Linux and Windows, and supported cloud services include AWS and Azure.

=== Installing Docker

To install Docker on your operating system, follow the instructions in the link:/doc/pipeline/tour/getting-started/#prerequisites[Guided Tour prerequisites].

Alternatively, visit link:https://hub.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community[Docker Hub], and select the *Docker Community Edition* suitable for your operating system or cloud service.
Follow the installation instructions on their website.

[CAUTION]
====
If you are installing Docker on a Linux-based operating system, ensure you configure Docker so it can be managed as a non-root user.
Read more about this in Docker's link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/linux-postinstall/[Post-installation steps for Linux] page of their documentation.
This page also contains information about how to configure Docker to start on boot.
====

include::doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc[]

=== Downloading and running Jenkins in Docker

There are several Docker images of Jenkins available.

Use the recommended official link:https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkins/jenkins/[`jenkins/jenkins` image] from the link:https://hub.docker.com/[Docker Hub repository].
This image contains the current link:/download[Long-Term Support (LTS) release of Jenkins], which is production-ready.
However, this image doesn't contain Docker CLI, and is not bundled with the frequently used Blue Ocean plugins and its features.
To use the full power of Jenkins and Docker, you may want to go through the installation process described below.

[NOTE]
====
A new `jenkins/jenkins` image is published each time a new release of Jenkins Docker is published. 
You can see a list of previously published versions of the `jenkins/jenkins` image on the link:https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkins/jenkins/tags/[tags] page.
====

include::doc/book/installing/_docker.adoc[]

include::doc/book/installing/_setup-wizard.adoc[]

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify Java prerequisites for Jenkins installation

content/doc/book/installing/docker.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Docker
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

////
IMPORTANT: If you update content in this section, please ensure you check these
changes against the procedures documented in the
'tutorials/_prerequisites.adoc' file, which is used in the Guided Tour of the
Jenkins Documentation.
////


== Java Requirement

Jenkins requires Java 17 or Java 21 (64-bit).  
Install Java before proceeding.  
Refer to the [_Installation Requirements_](./_installation_requirements.adoc) page for details.


link:https://docs.docker.com/get-started/overview/[Docker] is a platform for running applications in an isolated environment called a "container" (or Docker container).
Applications like Jenkins can be downloaded as read-only "images" (or Docker images), each of which is run in Docker as a container.
A Docker container is a "running instance" of a Docker image.
A Docker image is stored permanently, based on when image updates are published, whereas containers are stored temporarily.
Learn more about these concepts in link:https://docs.docker.com/get-started/[Getting Started, Part 1: Orientation and setup] in the Docker documentation.

Due to Docker's fundamental platform and container design, a Docker image for a given application, such as Jenkins, can be run on any supported operating system or cloud service also running Docker.
Supported operating systems include macOS, Linux and Windows, and supported cloud services include AWS and Azure.

=== Installing Docker

To install Docker on your operating system, follow the instructions in the link:/doc/pipeline/tour/getting-started/#prerequisites[Guided Tour prerequisites].

Alternatively, visit link:https://hub.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community[Docker Hub], and select the *Docker Community Edition* suitable for your operating system or cloud service.
Follow the installation instructions on their website.

[CAUTION]
====
If you are installing Docker on a Linux-based operating system, ensure you configure Docker so it can be managed as a non-root user.
Read more about this in Docker's link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/linux-postinstall/[Post-installation steps for Linux] page of their documentation.
This page also contains information about how to configure Docker to start on boot.
====

include::doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc[]

=== Downloading and running Jenkins in Docker

There are several Docker images of Jenkins available.

Use the recommended official link:https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkins/jenkins/[`jenkins/jenkins` image] from the link:https://hub.docker.com/[Docker Hub repository].
This image contains the current link:/download[Long-Term Support (LTS) release of Jenkins], which is production-ready.
However, this image doesn't contain Docker CLI, and is not bundled with the frequently used Blue Ocean plugins and its features.
To use the full power of Jenkins and Docker, you may want to go through the installation process described below.

[NOTE]
====
A new `jenkins/jenkins` image is published each time a new release of Jenkins Docker is published. 
You can see a list of previously published versions of the `jenkins/jenkins` image on the link:https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkins/jenkins/tags/[tags] page.
====

include::doc/book/installing/_docker.adoc[]

include::doc/book/installing/_setup-wizard.adoc[]
