content/doc/book/installing/windows.adoc, before:

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

= Windows

The simplest way to install Jenkins on Windows is to use the Jenkins Windows installer.
That program will install Jenkins as a service using a 64 bit JVM chosen by the user.
Keep in mind that to run Jenkins as a service, the account that runs Jenkins must have permission to login as a service.

include::doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc[]

[#windows-msi-installers]
== Installation steps using Windows MSI installer

.How to install Jenkins on Windows
video::XuMrEDA8cAI[youtube, width=682, height=384]

Refer to the Windows section of the
link:/download/#downloading-jenkins[Downloading Jenkins] page
to download either an LTS release or a weekly release of the Windows installer.
After the download completes, open the Windows installer and follow the steps below to install Jenkins.

Step 1: Setup wizard::

On opening the Windows Installer, an *Installation Setup Wizard* appears,
Click *Next* on the Setup Wizard to start your installation.

image:tutorials/windows-installation-setup-wizard.png[alt="Windows Installation Setup Wizard",width=80%]

Step 2: Select destination folder::

Select the destination folder to store your Jenkins Installation and click *Next* to continue.

image:tutorials/windows-installation-destination.png[alt="Jenkins Installation Destination",width=80%]

Step 3: Service logon credentials::

When Installing Jenkins, it is recommended to install and run Jenkins as an independent
windows service using a *local or domain user* as it is much safer than running Jenkins
using *LocalSystem(Windows equivalent of root)* which will grant Jenkins full access
to your machine and services.

To run Jenkins service using a *local or domain user*, specify the domain user name and
password with which you want to run Jenkins,
click on *Test Credentials* to test your domain credentials and click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-logon-credentials.png[alt="Jenkins Service Logon Credentials",width=80%]

NOTE: If you get *Invalid Logon* Error pop-up while trying to test your credentials,
follow the steps explained <<invalid-service-logon-credentials,here>> to resolve it.

Step 4: Port selection::

Specify the port on which Jenkins will be running,
*Test Port* button to validate whether the specified port if free on your machine or not.
Consequently, if the port is free, it will show a green tick mark as shown below,
then click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-select-port.png[alt="Jenkins Select Port",width=80%]

Step 5: Select Java home directory::

The installation process checks for Java on your machine and prefills the dialog with the
Java home directory.
If the needed Java version is not installed on your machine, you will be prompted to install it.

Once your Java home directory has been selected, click on *Next* to continue.

image:tutorials/windows-select-jdk-installation.png[alt="Select Java Home Directory",width=80%]

Step 6: Custom setup::

Select other services that need to be installed with Jenkins and click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-select-features-to-install.png[alt="Jenkins Custom Setup",width=80%]

Step 7: Install Jenkins::

Click on the *Install* button to start the installation of Jenkins.

image:tutorials/windows-install.png[alt="Windows Install Jenkins",width=80%]

Additionally, clicking on the *Install* button will show the progress bar of installation,
as shown below:

image:tutorials/windows-installation-progress.png[alt="Windows Installation Progress",width=80%]

Step 8: Finish Jenkins installation::

Once the installation completes, click on *Finish* to complete the installation.

image:tutorials/windows-finish-install.png[alt="Finish Install",width=80%]

Jenkins will be installed as a *Windows Service*. You can validate this by browsing
the *services* section, as shown below:

image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-service.png[alt="Windows Jenkins Service",width=80%]

NOTE: See the link:/blog/2020/08/12/windows-installers-upgrade/#next-steps[upgrade steps] when you upgrade to a new release.

== Silent Install with the MSI installers

MSI installers can be installed via a silent method, which can show basic UI (/qb) or no UI at all (/qn). The silent method does not prompt for user input so there are properties that you can pass to the installer to set the specific values. A very basic command line is shown below for a silent install.

[source,bat]
----
msiexec.exe /i "path\to\jenkins.msi" /qn /norestart
----

.This will use all of the default values for things that would normally be a prompt such as:
* Installation directory
* Service account username/password
* Java installation directory
* The port for Jenkins to listen on

Each of these things can be overridden by passing a `NAME=VALUE` property pair for what you want to override:

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Property Name|Description 

|INSTALLDIR
|Path to the directory to install Jenkins. (Default: C:\Program Files\Jenkins)

|PORT
|The port Jenkins will listen on. (Default: 8080)

|JAVA_HOME
|The directory where java.exe can be found. (Default: The latest recommended Java runtime found in the registry)

|SERVICE_USERNAME
|The username that the service should run as. The account must have LogonAsService permissions. (Default: In silent mode, the LOCALSYSTEM account)

|SERVICE_PASSWORD
|The password for the SERVICE_USERNAME account. This should only be provided if SERVICE_USERNAME is provided. (Default: In silent mode, none for LOCALSYSTEM)
|===

A more complex example, including the creation of a log file for the installation process is shown below:
[source,bat]
----
msiexec.exe /i "path\to\jenkins.msi" /qn /norestart INSTALLDIR="D:\Jenkins" JAVA_HOME="C:\Program Files\SomeJava" PORT=80 /L*v "path\to\logfile.txt"
----

This would install Jenkins into D:\Jenkins, use the Java runtime from C:\Program Files\SomeJava and Jenkins would be listening on port 80.

== Post-installation setup wizard

After downloading, installing and running Jenkins, the post-installation setup wizard begins.

This setup wizard takes you through a few quick "one-off" steps to unlock
Jenkins, customize it with plugins and create the first administrator user
through which you can continue accessing Jenkins.


=== Unlocking Jenkins

When you first access a new Jenkins controller, you are asked to unlock it using
an automatically-generated password.

Step 1::

Browse to `\http://localhost:8080` (or whichever port you configured for
Jenkins when installing it) and wait until the *Unlock Jenkins* page appears.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/setup-jenkins-02-unlock-jenkins-page.png[alt="Unlock Jenkins page",width=80%]

Step 2::

The initial Administrator password should be found under the Jenkins installation
path (set at Step 2 in Jenkins Installation).

For default installation location to C:\Program Files\Jenkins, a file called
*initialAdminPassword* can be found under C:\Program Files\Jenkins\secrets.

However, If a custom path for Jenkins installation was selected, then you should check
that location for *initialAdminPassword* file.

image:tutorials/windows-initial-password-location.png[alt="Jenkins Initial Password Location",width=80%]

Step 3::

Open the highlighted file and copy the content of the *initialAdminPassword* file.

image:tutorials/windows-initial-password-file.png[alt="Jenkins Initial Password File",width=80%]

Step 4::

On the *Unlock Jenkins* page, paste this password into the *Administrator password* field and click *Continue*. +
  *Notes:*
* You can also access Jenkins logs in the *jenkins.err.log* file in your Jenkins directory specified during the installation.
* The Jenkins log file is another location (in the Jenkins home directory)
  where the initial password can also be obtained.

+
image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-log.png[alt="Windows Jenkins Log File",width=80%]

This password must be entered in the
setup wizard on new Jenkins installations before you can access Jenkins's main
UI. This password also serves as the default administrator account's password
(with username "admin") if you happen to skip the subsequent user-creation
step in the setup wizard.


=== Customizing Jenkins with plugins

After <<unlocking-jenkins,unlocking Jenkins>>, the *Customize Jenkins* page
appears. Here you can install any number of useful plugins as part of your
initial setup.

Click one of the two options shown:

* *Install suggested plugins* - to install the recommended set of plugins, which
   are based on most common use cases.
* *Select plugins to install* - to choose which set of plugins to initially
   install. When you first access the plugin selection page, the suggested
   plugins are selected by default.

NOTE: If you are not sure what plugins you need, choose **Install suggested
plugins**.
You can install (or remove) additional Jenkins plugins at a later point in time
via the
link:/doc/book/managing[**Manage Jenkins**] >
link:/doc/book/managing/plugins/[**Plugins**] page in Jenkins.

The setup wizard shows the progression of Jenkins being configured and your
chosen set of Jenkins plugins being installed. This process may take a few
minutes.


=== Creating the first administrator user

Finally, after <<customizing-jenkins-with-plugins,customizing Jenkins with
plugins>>, Jenkins asks you to create your first administrator user.

. When the *Create First Admin User* page appears, specify the details for your
  administrator user in the respective fields and click *Save and Finish*.
. When the *Jenkins is ready* page appears, click *Start using Jenkins*. +
  *Notes:*
* This page may indicate *Jenkins is almost ready!* instead and if so, click
  *Restart*.
* If the page does not automatically refresh after a minute, use your web
  browser to refresh the page manually.
. If required, log in to Jenkins with the credentials of the user you just
  created and you are ready to start using Jenkins!


== Troubleshooting Windows installation

=== Invalid service logon credentials

image:tutorials/windows-invalid-service-logon-credentials.png[alt="Invalid Service Logon Credentials",width=80%]

When installing a service to run under a domain user account, the account must have the right to logon as a service. This logon permission applies strictly to the local computer and must be granted in the Local Security Policy.

Perform the following steps below to edit the Local Security Policy of the computer you want to define the ‘logon as a service’ permission:

. Logon to the computer with administrative privileges.
. Open the *Administrative Tools* and open the *Local Security Policy*
. If the *Local Security Policy* is missing in your system, refer to the answer in the https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/all/where-to-download-gpeditmsc-for-windows-10-home/c39bd656-8d4a-4374-be39-394c09deec4e[Where to download GPEdit.msc for Windows 10 Home?] question on Microsoft Community to troubleshoot
. Expand *Local Policy* and click on *User Rights Assignment*
. In the right pane, right-click *Log on as a service* and select properties.
. Click on the *Add User or Group…* button to add the new user.
. In the *Select Users or Groups* dialogue, find the user you wish to enter and click *OK*
. Click *OK* in the *Log on as a service Properties* to save changes.

After completing the steps above, try logging in again with the added user.

Commit message:

Modified windows.adoc: - Added a brief note in "Step 3: Service logon credentials::" to indicate that the Jenkins service account requires `LogonAsService` permission. - Slightly adjusted wording in the troubleshooting section.
Reference: [JENKINS-63477](https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-63477).

content/doc/book/installing/windows.adoc, after:

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

= Windows

The simplest way to install Jenkins on Windows is to use the Jenkins Windows installer.
That program will install Jenkins as a service using a 64 bit JVM chosen by the user.
Keep in mind that to run Jenkins as a service, the account that runs Jenkins must have permission to login as a service.

include::doc/book/installing/_installation_requirements.adoc[]

[#windows-msi-installers]
== Installation steps using Windows MSI installer

.How to install Jenkins on Windows
video::XuMrEDA8cAI[youtube, width=682, height=384]

Refer to the Windows section of the
link:/download/#downloading-jenkins[Downloading Jenkins] page
to download either an LTS release or a weekly release of the Windows installer.
After the download completes, open the Windows installer and follow the steps below to install Jenkins.

Step 1: Setup wizard::

On opening the Windows Installer, an *Installation Setup Wizard* appears,
Click *Next* on the Setup Wizard to start your installation.

image:tutorials/windows-installation-setup-wizard.png[alt="Windows Installation Setup Wizard",width=80%]

Step 2: Select destination folder::

Select the destination folder to store your Jenkins Installation and click *Next* to continue.

image:tutorials/windows-installation-destination.png[alt="Jenkins Installation Destination",width=80%]

Step 3: Service logon credentials::

When Installing Jenkins, it is recommended to install and run Jenkins as an independent
windows service using a *local or domain user* as it is much safer than running Jenkins
using *LocalSystem(Windows equivalent of root)* which will grant Jenkins full access
to your machine and services.

To run Jenkins service using a *local or domain user*, specify the domain user name and
password with which you want to run Jenkins,
click on *Test Credentials* to test your domain credentials and click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-logon-credentials.png[alt="Jenkins Service Logon Credentials",width=80%]

NOTE: The user account running Jenkins requires the `LogonAsService` permission to run Jenkins 
as a service.
If you get *Invalid Logon* Error pop-up while trying to test your credentials,
follow the steps explained <<invalid-service-logon-credentials,here>> to resolve it.

Step 4: Port selection::

Specify the port on which Jenkins will be running,
*Test Port* button to validate whether the specified port if free on your machine or not.
Consequently, if the port is free, it will show a green tick mark as shown below,
then click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-select-port.png[alt="Jenkins Select Port",width=80%]

Step 5: Select Java home directory::

The installation process checks for Java on your machine and prefills the dialog with the
Java home directory.
If the needed Java version is not installed on your machine, you will be prompted to install it.

Once your Java home directory has been selected, click on *Next* to continue.

image:tutorials/windows-select-jdk-installation.png[alt="Select Java Home Directory",width=80%]

Step 6: Custom setup::

Select other services that need to be installed with Jenkins and click on *Next*.

image:tutorials/windows-select-features-to-install.png[alt="Jenkins Custom Setup",width=80%]

Step 7: Install Jenkins::

Click on the *Install* button to start the installation of Jenkins.

image:tutorials/windows-install.png[alt="Windows Install Jenkins",width=80%]

Additionally, clicking on the *Install* button will show the progress bar of installation,
as shown below:

image:tutorials/windows-installation-progress.png[alt="Windows Installation Progress",width=80%]

Step 8: Finish Jenkins installation::

Once the installation completes, click on *Finish* to complete the installation.

image:tutorials/windows-finish-install.png[alt="Finish Install",width=80%]

Jenkins will be installed as a *Windows Service*. You can validate this by browsing
the *services* section, as shown below:

image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-service.png[alt="Windows Jenkins Service",width=80%]

NOTE: See the link:/blog/2020/08/12/windows-installers-upgrade/#next-steps[upgrade steps] when you upgrade to a new release.

== Silent Install with the MSI installers

MSI installers can be installed via a silent method, which can show basic UI (/qb) or no UI at all (/qn). The silent method does not prompt for user input so there are properties that you can pass to the installer to set the specific values. A very basic command line is shown below for a silent install.

[source,bat]
----
msiexec.exe /i "path\to\jenkins.msi" /qn /norestart
----

.This will use all of the default values for things that would normally be a prompt such as:
* Installation directory
* Service account username/password
* Java installation directory
* The port for Jenkins to listen on

Each of these things can be overridden by passing a `NAME=VALUE` property pair for what you want to override:

[cols="1,1"]
|===
|Property Name|Description 

|INSTALLDIR
|Path to the directory to install Jenkins. (Default: C:\Program Files\Jenkins)

|PORT
|The port Jenkins will listen on. (Default: 8080)

|JAVA_HOME
|The directory where java.exe can be found. (Default: The latest recommended Java runtime found in the registry)

|SERVICE_USERNAME
|The username that the service should run as. The account must have LogonAsService permissions. (Default: In silent mode, the LOCALSYSTEM account)

|SERVICE_PASSWORD
|The password for the SERVICE_USERNAME account. This should only be provided if SERVICE_USERNAME is provided. (Default: In silent mode, none for LOCALSYSTEM)
|===

A more complex example, including the creation of a log file for the installation process is shown below:
[source,bat]
----
msiexec.exe /i "path\to\jenkins.msi" /qn /norestart INSTALLDIR="D:\Jenkins" JAVA_HOME="C:\Program Files\SomeJava" PORT=80 /L*v "path\to\logfile.txt"
----

This would install Jenkins into D:\Jenkins, use the Java runtime from C:\Program Files\SomeJava and Jenkins would be listening on port 80.

== Post-installation setup wizard

After downloading, installing and running Jenkins, the post-installation setup wizard begins.

This setup wizard takes you through a few quick "one-off" steps to unlock
Jenkins, customize it with plugins and create the first administrator user
through which you can continue accessing Jenkins.


=== Unlocking Jenkins

When you first access a new Jenkins controller, you are asked to unlock it using
an automatically-generated password.

Step 1::

Browse to `\http://localhost:8080` (or whichever port you configured for
Jenkins when installing it) and wait until the *Unlock Jenkins* page appears.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/setup-jenkins-02-unlock-jenkins-page.png[alt="Unlock Jenkins page",width=80%]

Step 2::

The initial Administrator password should be found under the Jenkins installation
path (set at Step 2 in Jenkins Installation).

For default installation location to C:\Program Files\Jenkins, a file called
*initialAdminPassword* can be found under C:\Program Files\Jenkins\secrets.

However, If a custom path for Jenkins installation was selected, then you should check
that location for *initialAdminPassword* file.

image:tutorials/windows-initial-password-location.png[alt="Jenkins Initial Password Location",width=80%]

Step 3::

Open the highlighted file and copy the content of the *initialAdminPassword* file.

image:tutorials/windows-initial-password-file.png[alt="Jenkins Initial Password File",width=80%]

Step 4::

On the *Unlock Jenkins* page, paste this password into the *Administrator password* field and click *Continue*. +
  *Notes:*
* You can also access Jenkins logs in the *jenkins.err.log* file in your Jenkins directory specified during the installation.
* The Jenkins log file is another location (in the Jenkins home directory)
  where the initial password can also be obtained.

+
image:tutorials/windows-jenkins-log.png[alt="Windows Jenkins Log File",width=80%]

This password must be entered in the
setup wizard on new Jenkins installations before you can access Jenkins's main
UI. This password also serves as the default administrator account's password
(with username "admin") if you happen to skip the subsequent user-creation
step in the setup wizard.


=== Customizing Jenkins with plugins

After <<unlocking-jenkins,unlocking Jenkins>>, the *Customize Jenkins* page
appears. Here you can install any number of useful plugins as part of your
initial setup.

Click one of the two options shown:

* *Install suggested plugins* - to install the recommended set of plugins, which
   are based on most common use cases.
* *Select plugins to install* - to choose which set of plugins to initially
   install. When you first access the plugin selection page, the suggested
   plugins are selected by default.

NOTE: If you are not sure what plugins you need, choose **Install suggested
plugins**.
You can install (or remove) additional Jenkins plugins at a later point in time
via the
link:/doc/book/managing[**Manage Jenkins**] >
link:/doc/book/managing/plugins/[**Plugins**] page in Jenkins.

The setup wizard shows the progression of Jenkins being configured and your
chosen set of Jenkins plugins being installed. This process may take a few
minutes.


=== Creating the first administrator user

Finally, after <<customizing-jenkins-with-plugins,customizing Jenkins with
plugins>>, Jenkins asks you to create your first administrator user.

. When the *Create First Admin User* page appears, specify the details for your
  administrator user in the respective fields and click *Save and Finish*.
. When the *Jenkins is ready* page appears, click *Start using Jenkins*. +
  *Notes:*
* This page may indicate *Jenkins is almost ready!* instead and if so, click
  *Restart*.
* If the page does not automatically refresh after a minute, use your web
  browser to refresh the page manually.
. If required, log in to Jenkins with the credentials of the user you just
  created and you are ready to start using Jenkins!


== Troubleshooting Windows installation

=== Invalid service logon credentials

image:tutorials/windows-invalid-service-logon-credentials.png[alt="Invalid Service Logon Credentials",width=80%]

When installing a service to run under a domain user account, the account must have the right to logon as a service. This logon permission applies strictly to the local computer and must be granted in the Local Security Policy.

Perform the following steps below to edit the Local Security Policy of the computer you want to define the ‘logon as a service’ permission:

. Logon to the computer with administrative privileges.
. Open the *Administrative Tools* and open the *Local Security Policy* or typing `secpol.msc` in the Run dialog (Win + R) and pressing Enter.
. If the *Local Security Policy* is missing in your system, refer to the answer in the https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/all/where-to-download-gpeditmsc-for-windows-10-home/c39bd656-8d4a-4374-be39-394c09deec4e[Where to download GPEdit.msc for Windows 10 Home?] question on Microsoft Community to troubleshoot
. In the *Local Security Policy* window, Expand *Local Policy* and click on *User Rights Assignment*
. In the right pane, right-click *Log on as a service* and select properties.
. Click on the *Add User or Group…* button to add the new user.
. In the *Select Users or Groups* dialogue, find the user you wish to enter and click *OK*
. Click *OK* in the *Log on as a service Properties* to save changes.

After completing the steps above, try logging in again with the added user.
