content/blog/2025/07/24/2025-07-24-giovanni-vaccarino-gsoc-midterm-post.adoc, before:

---
layout: post
title: GSoC Midterm Update, Building an AI-Powered Chatbot
tags:
  - gsoc
  - gsoc2025
  - jenkins
  - chatbot
  - ai
  - natural-language-processing
  - jenkins-plugin
  - open-source
authors:
  - giovanni-vaccarino
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
sig:
  - gsoc
---

Hello everyone!

I'm Giovanni Vaccarino, and I’m working on the *AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources* project as part of Google Summer of Code 2025. This project focuses on developing a Jenkins plugin that integrates an AI chatbot to help users quickly find relevant Jenkins documentation, plugins, and community resources.

We've just crossed the midpoint of July, so I'd like to share a progress update on the project.

== What I've Accomplished So Far

Here are the major milestones I've achieved in this period:

* Built the complete *data pipeline* for the RAG-based chatbot, from data collection to embedding and vector storage
* Implemented a *REST API* to serve the chatbot functionalities
* Developed the *plugin UI*, which was integrated into the Jenkins user interface
* Written unit and integration *tests* for both the backend and frontend components
* Continuously update the project *documentation*

== What I've Learned

While this journey has been full of technical growth, GSoC has been about much more than just writing code. It’s been about having meaningful discussions, valuable mentorship, and collaboration by exchanging ideas and opinions.

== What's Next?

With several weeks still ahead, I'm fully committed to continue the work on the project. The second phase will focus on enhancing the quality of the chatbot's responses. I plan to explore agentic approaches and develop more complex chains and flows, all while keeping the response time constraints in mind.

== Acknowledgements

A huge thank you to my mentors *Vutukuri Sreenivas*, *Kris Stern*, *Bervianto Leo Pratama*, and *Bruno Verachten* for their constant availability, quick responses, code reviews, and thoughtful guidance.

Also, a big shout-out to the Jenkins org admins *Kris Stern*, *Bruno Verachten*, and *Alyssa Tong* for their continuous support throughout the coding period.

== Midterm Presentation

We've recently completed the GSoC midterm presentation for the project, where I walked through the current status, key features and future plans. If you are interested in a more detailed overview, you can check out the recording https://youtube.com/add-presentation-link[here].

== Want to Track the Project?

Follow the plugin's development: https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin[GitHub Repo]

I'm excited for the weeks ahead and to keep building with the Jenkins community!

Commit message:

Update gsoc midterm presentation (#8310)
* Add midterm presentations to GSoC page

* update link destination

---------

Co-authored-by: Kris Stern <krisstern@outlook.com>

content/blog/2025/07/24/2025-07-24-giovanni-vaccarino-gsoc-midterm-post.adoc, after:

---
layout: post
title: GSoC Midterm Update, Building an AI-Powered Chatbot
tags:
  - gsoc
  - gsoc2025
  - jenkins
  - chatbot
  - ai
  - natural-language-processing
  - jenkins-plugin
  - open-source
authors:
  - giovanni-vaccarino
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
sig:
  - gsoc
---

Hello everyone!

I'm Giovanni Vaccarino, and I’m working on the *AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources* project as part of Google Summer of Code 2025. This project focuses on developing a Jenkins plugin that integrates an AI chatbot to help users quickly find relevant Jenkins documentation, plugins, and community resources.

We've just crossed the midpoint of July, so I'd like to share a progress update on the project.

== What I've Accomplished So Far

Here are the major milestones I've achieved in this period:

* Built the complete *data pipeline* for the RAG-based chatbot, from data collection to embedding and vector storage
* Implemented a *REST API* to serve the chatbot functionalities
* Developed the *plugin UI*, which was integrated into the Jenkins user interface
* Written unit and integration *tests* for both the backend and frontend components
* Continuously update the project *documentation*

== What I've Learned

While this journey has been full of technical growth, GSoC has been about much more than just writing code. It’s been about having meaningful discussions, valuable mentorship, and collaboration by exchanging ideas and opinions.

== What's Next?

With several weeks still ahead, I'm fully committed to continue the work on the project. The second phase will focus on enhancing the quality of the chatbot's responses. I plan to explore agentic approaches and develop more complex chains and flows, all while keeping the response time constraints in mind.

== Acknowledgements

A huge thank you to my mentors *Vutukuri Sreenivas*, *Kris Stern*, *Bervianto Leo Pratama*, and *Bruno Verachten* for their constant availability, quick responses, code reviews, and thoughtful guidance.

Also, a big shout-out to the Jenkins org admins *Kris Stern*, *Bruno Verachten*, and *Alyssa Tong* for their continuous support throughout the coding period.

== Midterm Presentation

We've recently completed the GSoC midterm presentation for the project, where I walked through the current status, key features and future plans. If you are interested in a more detailed overview, link:/projects/gsoc/#gsoc-2025[the recording is available on the GSoC project page].

== Want to Track the Project?

Follow the plugin's development: https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin[GitHub Repo]

I'm excited for the weeks ahead and to keep building with the Jenkins community!
